From Inpainting to Layer Decomposition:
Repurposing Generative Inpainting Models for Image Layer Decomposition
Jingxi Chen1, 2*, Yixiao Zhang2, Xiaoye Qian2, Zongxia Li1,
Cornelia Fermuller1, Caren Chen2, Yiannis Aloimonos1
1University of Maryland
2Amazon
https://inpaintinglayerdecomp.github.io/
Input Image
Output Background
Output Foreground
Input Image
Output Background
Output Foreground
Figure 1. We propose a novel method for image layer decomposition, that is able to simultaneously extract foreground object with potential
occlusion recovered, and remove the object from the background. The model is efficiently adapted from a pre-trained inpainting model. For
each set of images in this figure, left is the original image, middle is the background and right is the foreground.
Abstract
Images can be viewed as layered compositions, fore-
ground objects over background, with potential occlusions.
This layered representation enables independent editing of
elements, offering greater flexibility for content creation. De-
spite the progress in large generative models, decomposing
a single image into layers remains challenging due to limited
methods and data. We observe a strong connection between
layer decomposition and in/outpainting tasks, and propose
adapting a diffusion-based inpainting model for layer decom-
position using lightweight finetuning. To further preserve
detail in the latent space, we introduce a novel multi-modal
context fusion module with linear attention complexity. Our
model is trained purely on a synthetic dataset constructed
from open-source assets and achieves superior performance
in object removal and occlusion recovery, unlocking new pos-
sibilities in downstream editing and creative applications.
*Work done during Jingxi Chen’s internship at Amazon
1. Introduction
Recent advances in generative modeling, particularly diffu-
sion models, have greatly improved image synthesis and ma-
nipulation. While most image diffusion models [22, 27, 34]
target single tasks like inpainting, super-resolution, or im-
age translation, they excel at generating plausible content in
under-constrained scenarios. However, real-world applica-
tions often require a combination of related tasks. One such
task is image layer decomposition, simultaneously extracting
the foreground and completing the background, which goes
beyond inpainting and supports applications like creative
re-composition, layered artwork generation, and component-
based retrieval.
While single-task image diffusion models have been
widely studied, diffusion-based image layer decomposition
remains underexplored. A recent work [37] addresses this by
fully fine-tuning a closed-source, pre-trained text-to-image
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
16054


model on a large, curated dataset. Although effective, this
approach demands substantial computational resources and
data. In contrast, we observe that decomposed backgrounds
involve filling masked regions, while foregrounds extend
unmasked regions with an additional alpha channel. This
conceptual similarity to inpainting and outpainting motivates
our approach: to achieve layer decomposition through effi-
cient adaptation of a pre-trained model, without large-scale
training.
The central research question of this work is: What is
the relationship between image layer decomposition and
inpainting, and can existing inpainting models be effectively
adapted to perform layer decomposition?
This question drives our investigation into whether
lightweight repurposing of inpainting models can offer a
practical alternative to large-scale retraining for image layer
decomposition. This direction is valuable to both researchers
and practitioners, as training generative models from scratch
is increasingly costly in terms of compute and data. In
contrast, numerous pre-trained models already exist for stan-
dard tasks like inpainting. If these models can be effec-
tively adapted for layer decomposition with minimal effort, it
would significantly reduce development overhead and enable
a plug-and-play extension that benefits from future advances
in inpainting models.
In this work, we introduce the first approach to adapt
a pre-trained image inpainting model for the novel task of
image layer decomposition, as illustrated in Figure 1. By
examining the fundamental relationship between inpainting
and layer decomposition, we observe that the latter extends
inpainting by requiring not only background completion
but also foreground extraction and outpainting. This in-
sight motivates our method, Outpaint-and-Remove, which
efficiently adapts a pre-trained diffusion-based inpainting
model to perform image layer decomposition in a parameter-
and data-efficient manner.
For robust evaluation, we conduct experiments on the
MULAN [30] dataset, which is the only standard dataset in
this domain to the best of our knowledge. We also conduct
user study on a small set of real-word high quality images.
Both qualitative and quantitative results show state-of-the-art
performance on the novel task of image layer decomposition,
as well as on standard object removal. Our ablation studies
further validate the effectiveness of our design, demonstrat-
ing that augmenting a pre-trained inpainting model signifi-
cantly improves its ability to perform layer decomposition.
Our main contributions are summarized as follows:
• A novel perspective on layer decomposition, and a data-
and parameter-efficient method that enables pre-trained
image inpainting models to perform layer decomposition.
• Comprehensive experiments and ablations demonstrate
that our adaptation-based approach effectively leverages
publicly available models and datasets to achieve state-of-
the-art performance on both image layer decomposition
and the original inpainting task.
2. Related Work
2.1. Image Diffusion Models
Diffusion models (or related flow-based models) [4, 6, 7,
24, 26] have dominated image generation since the pioneer-
ing work DDPM [13], outperforming VAE-based [17] and
GAN-based [11] approaches in diversity, robustness, and
scalability. While alternatives such as autoregressive mod-
els [29] have been proposed, most state-of-the-art text-to-
image models remain within the diffusion paradigm [3, 26].
Diffusion models have also been successfully adapted to a
wide range of image tasks, including inpainting [8, 22, 36],
super-resolution [10], image translation [3, 19], and even
discriminative tasks like segmentation and matting [1, 14].
2.2. Image inpainting Models
Early image inpainting methods typically rely on training
convolutional neural networks or transformers from scratch
on curated datasets [28, 39, 40]. More recently, diffusion-
based generative models have become the dominant ap-
proach for inpainting, driven by both industrial [9, 20] and
open-source [2] efforts. Compared to traditional methods,
these models offer greater diversity through sampling and
better controllability via prompt conditioning.
2.3. Image Layer Decomposition
Layer decomposition enables flexible element-wise image
editing that is infeasible with single-layer images. How-
ever, high-quality layer-annotated datasets remain scarce
in the open-source community. MULAN [30] provides a
large-scale dataset with RGBA layers, but these are gener-
ated using off-the-shelf detection, segmentation, or inpaint-
ing models, and their quality is not guaranteed. LayerDif-
fuse [41] and Alfie [25] repurpose diffusion models to syn-
thesize RGBA layers. In our work, we leverage MULAN and
LayerDiffuse as foreground layer data sources. LAYERDE-
COMP [37] is a recent method explicitly targeting the layer
decomposition task. However, LAYERDECOMP requires
full fine-tuning on a large scale high-quality dataset, making
it impractical for general users with limited resources. In
contrast, our method introduces lightweight LoRA-based
fine-tuning strategy with multi-modal context inputs. This
allows us to re-purpose existing pre-trained inpainting mod-
els for layer decomposition without large-scale training and
democratize the capability to a broader range of users.
3. Proposed Approach
3.1. Problem Formulation
The core idea of our method is that image layer decompo-
sition can be reformulated as a combination of inpainting
16055


and outpainting tasks. Rather than designing a model from
scratch, we show that a single inpainting model can be effi-
ciently fine-tuned to handle this task.
In this section, we discuss the conceptual connection
between image inpainting and layer decomposition, and ex-
plain how we adapt the inpainting formulation to simul-
taneously recover missing regions (inpainting) and extend
visible content beyond its original boundaries (outpainting),
effectively enabling layered decomposition.
Image inpainting: The image inpainting problem can be
formulated as follows: given an input image I and a binary
mask M, a diffusion-based inpainting model fθ1 takes the
masked image I·M as input and predicts the missing content
in the region indicated by M. Here, · denotes the element-
wise masking operation that removes the target region in I
for the purpose of inpainting.
Image Layer Decomposition: For the Image Layer De-
composition, given an input image I and a binary mask M,
a diffusion-based model fθ2 takes the image I and M as
input and outputs both the extracted foreground indicated by
M, which may include occluded regions, and a completed
background with the foreground object removed. The key
difference from image inpainting lies not only in the ad-
ditional foreground output but also in the treatment of the
background. As shown in Figure 6, an inpainting model sim-
ply fills the masked region with plausible content, while layer
decomposition requires explicit object removal, restoring the
background as if the object never existed.
Nevertheless, we observe a structural unification between
inpainting and layer decomposition tasks. For the back-
ground layer, both approaches involve filling masked regions
with plausible content. For the foreground layer, the goal
is to recover accurate RGB and alpha channels within the
masked object, while enforcing zero alpha outside, effec-
tively an outpainting formulation with transparency con-
straints. We also provide an intuitive illustration of the simi-
larity between outpainting and foreground generation in the
supplementary materials. This dual formulation allows both
foreground and background generation to be viewed as spe-
cial cases of in-/out-painting. As modern diffusion models
are generalists due to large-scale pre-training, we propose
reusing a single inpainting backbone with minimal modifi-
cations, adding a lightweight foreground prediction head, to
support image layer decomposition via parameter-efficient
fine-tuning.
3.2. Pipeline Overview
We present an overview of our proposed Outpaint-and-
Remove pipeline in Figure 2. In the Figure 3, We detail
our proposed method and key components. We also explain
our unique data curation strategy built entirely from open-
source datasets and tools in Figure 5.
Inpainting 
DiT
LoRA
Multi-context 
Tokenization
RGB
Decoding
RGBA
Decoding
RGB
Decoding
Inpainting 
DiT
Inpainting 
Tokenization
PEFT
Figure 2. The top illustrates the original inpainting functionality
of the pre-trained Inpainting DiT. The bottom shows our adapted
pipeline for the image layer decomposition task. We introduce
three key components to the pre-trained model for the adaptation:
1) Multi-Modal context Tokenization, 2) Parameter-Efficient Fine-
Tuning (PEFT), 3) RGBA Decoding. Original components from
the pre-trained model are highlighted in light blue, while our added
or modified components are shown in orange.
3.3. Multi-Modal Context Tokenization
Modern diffusion or flow models work on tokens in a la-
tent space. To preserve as much fine details as possible in
the latent space, we are motivated to exploit multi-modal
context inputs as conditions for generation. Specifically, we
produce the edge map, segmentation map and depth map
from the given image. Given the image, mask, and multi-
modal maps obtained, we first convert all these image-like
inputs into tokens. With recent advances in VAE encoders
from pre-trained DiT models, we find these encoders can
effectively tokenize various image-like inputs, as verified in
our supplementary material.
However, when we want to incorporate more modalities
context tokens as additional inputs, challenge arises from the
computational overhead introduced by the growing number
of tokens. To address this, we propose summarizing the
multi-modal tokens into a compact representation before
feeding them into the DiT. While token fusion is best han-
dled by a transformer-like module, standard attention has
quadratic complexity, O(K2), where K is the total num-
ber of tokens from all modalities. To reduce this cost, our
proposed Multi-Modal Latent Fusion module, inspired by
linear attention transformers [15, 23], uses a small constant
number N << K of latent tokens as queries. This reduces
the attention complexity to approximately O(KN), making
it linear with respect to the number of input tokens.
3.4. Design of the Image-Mask Context
The design of the image-mask context plays a critical role in
our method. As shown in the ablation study (Section 4.4.2),
the choice of image-mask context directly reflects the nature
of the task, a combination of foreground outpainting and
background removal.
16056


Inpainting DiT 
❄
LoRA🔥
Input layer🔥
Encoder
❄
Image-Mask Context
Multi-Modal Context
cross-modal prediction
Encoder
❄
Multi-Modal 
Latent Fusion
🔥
concat
{𝑧!
", 𝑧!
#}
𝑧!$%
"
𝑧!$%
#
RGBA
Decoder
❄
RGB
Decoder
❄
Diffusion Steps T
Multi-Modal Latent Fusion
random masking 
Cross 
Attention
K, V
Q
Linear
….
Linear
Self- 
Attention
Repeat D
Latent Tokens
{𝑐&$'
"
, 𝑐&$'
#
}
𝑐''
Figure 3. Detailed diagram of the key components in our proposed adaptation method. Light blue boxes denote components from the original
pre-trained inpainting DiT model, while orange boxes represent our modifications or additions. Our approach efficiently incorporates both
Image-Mask Context and Multi-Modal Context tokens to guide generation. After adaptation, the model can simultaneously output an
extracted and outpainted foreground along with a clean, object-removed background.
Standard Inpainting Image—Mask Context
𝑐!"#
$
𝑐!"#
%
Figure 4. We illustrate the difference between the standard image-
mask context used in diffusion-based inpainting models, shown
in the light blue box as cb
I−M, and our proposed image-mask con-
text for image layer decomposition, shown in the orange box as
{cf
I−M, cb
I−M}.
Our context design is illustrated in Figure 4. Unlike
standard diffusion-based inpainting models that use only
a background image-mask context cb
I−M, we introduce an
additional foreground image-mask context cf
I−M. This fore-
ground context serves as a control signal that helps the model
balance preservation of existing information and generation
of new content, enabling faithful extraction and outpainting
of foreground objects.
After obtaining all context tokens from different sources,
foreground context cf
I−M
∈RN×d1, background con-
text cb
I−M
∈RN×d1, and fused multi-modal context
cMM
∈RN×d2, we concatenate them with the corre-
sponding noisy input tokens for foreground zf
t ∈RN×d3
and background zb
t ∈RN×d3. The concatenation is per-
formed along the channel dimension as follows: Foreground
input:concat(zf
t , cf
I−M, cMM) ∈RN×(d1+d2+d3), Back-
ground input: concat(zb
t, cb
I−M, cMM) ∈RN×(d1+d2+d3).
The final input to the DiT consists of two separate sequences
of N tokens, one for the foreground and one for the back-
ground, each with a token dimension of d1 + d2 + d3.
3.5. Parameter Efficient Finetuning Protocol
Inspired by prior work, we adopt a similar Parameter-
Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) protocol to adapt the frozen
base inpainting DiT for our task. This allows the model to
handle additional input channels and learn new capabilities
efficiently with few training iterations. Specifically, we fine-
tune the input projection layer and insert LoRA (Low-Rank
Adaptation) layers into each attention and feed-forward layer
of the DiT backbone.
Notably, as demonstrated in our ablation study (Sec-
tion 4.4.4), the LoRA rank plays a critical role in the de-
tail preservation of foreground generation. It governs the
trade-off between maintaining the generative power of the
base inpainting model and learning the new capacity for
foreground extraction, with the base model weights frozen.
3.6. Decoding Foreground and Background
The generated background is in RGB format, allowing us
to directly reuse the pre-trained VAE encoder and decoder
without modification. In contrast, the generated foreground
is in RGBA format, which includes an additional alpha chan-
16057


Figure 5. Our training data consists three sources: backgrounds,
real foregrounds, and synthetic foregrounds.
nel for transparency. To support this, we finetune a separate
RGBA encoder/decoder, following the same principles as
prior works [41].
3.7. Training Data Curation from Public Sources
In this section, we explain how we curate our synthetic
training dataset using public sources and tools. Our dataset
includes key compositional elements commonly found in
images, such as human, animals, objects, and indoor/outdoor
scenes.
We use the MULAN [30] dataset, a real-world layered im-
age dataset, as one of the foundation for RGBA foreground
layers. However, as shown in Figure 5, images in MULAN
often suffer from imperfect foreground extraction due to oc-
clusions and background entanglement. To address this, we
explore a text-to-layer generative model LayerDiffuse [41] to
generate cleaner foregrounds. While these models produce
complete foreground object shapes, they tend to introduce
over-smoothed textures and lack fine details, leading to de-
graded training performance.
To harness the strengths of both sources of images, we
propose a hybrid data strategy that combines two comple-
mentary foreground sources:1) Real foregrounds with rich
detail but incomplete shapes, 2) Generated foregrounds with
complete shapes but limited texture fidelity. By merging
these two types, we construct a more balanced and effective
training dataset.
4. Experimental Results
4.1. Datasets and Implementation Details
For the base inpainting model, we adopt FLUX.1-Fill-dev
[? ] as the pre-trained diffusion transformer (DiT)1. The
default LoRA rank for training is 256. The input resolution
is 1024x1024. The edge map is produced by Canny [5], the
segmentation map is from SegFormer [35], and the depth
map is from Depth-Anything-V2 [38]. We trained the model
using standard flow matching loss with batch size 8, learning
rate 5e −5 for 7200 iterations. Our curated training data is
constructed entirely from public datasets and tools, ensur-
ing both accessibility and reproducibility. Layered image
datasets based on real images are extremely limited. To
the best of our knowledge, MULAN [30] is the only stan-
dard dataset in this domain. For foreground objects, we
use real-world layered image from MULAN, as the primary
source. We incorporate generated foreground layers from
LayerDiffuse [41], guided by foreground prompts generated
via ChatGPT-4o. We include examples of such prompts in
the Supplementary Material. For background images, we
sample from OpenImages [18], which are then overlayed by
rescaled foregrounds to simulate realistic composite scenes.
Each training image contains 1–3 foreground objects with
possible occlusions. We intentionally use imperfect masks
for training so the model learns to infer the accurate object
boundary even in the cases of inaccurate input masks. In
total, we assemble 100,000 image–foreground–background
triplets, constructed entirely from public sources.
4.2. Evaluation Strategy
We compare our method against several state-of-the-art
(SOTA) object removal baselines, including SD-XL Inpaint-
ing [9], PowerPaint [44], BrushNet [16], OmniEraser [32],
GeoRemover [43], Qwen-Image-Edit [33] and our base pre-
trained model, FLUX.1-Fill-dev [3]. Quantitative evalua-
tions are conducted on the 526 images from test sets of
MULAN. Additionally, we perform qualitative comparisons
on a diverse set of real-world images across various subjects
and application domains to assess the quality of decomposed
layers.
For evaluation, we employ standard metrics widely used
in image reconstruction and object removal tasks, including
PSNR, SSIM [31], LPIPS [42] and FID [12]. To further
validate the practical effectiveness of our method, we also
include results from a user study on the foreground gener-
ation quality, reflecting subjective human preferences and
alignment with real-world use cases.
1We use it only for research purpose and abide by their Non-Commercial
License.
16058


Method
PSNR ↑
SSIM ↑
LPIPS ↓
FID ↓
SDI
20.92
0.84
0.17
69.93
PowerPaint
23.46
0.76
0.17
41.67
BrushNet
21.53
0.85
0.19
88.46
OmniEraser
21.45
0.72
0.31
55.80
GeoRemover
17.19
0.76
0.32
92.77
Qwen-Image-Edit
19.07
0.64
0.24
63.49
FLUX.1-Fill-dev
25.59
0.92
0.09
35.96
Ours
27.30
0.93
0.08
25.97
Table 1. Quantitative comparison of background removal.
Method
PSNR ↑
SSIM ↑
LPIPS ↓
FID ↓
User Preference Rate ↑
Matthing-Anything
25.11
0.95
0.09
56.61
8.15%
DiffMatte
29.69
0.98
0.05
28.50
32.34%
Ours
28.38
0.97
0.07
39.52
59.51%
Table 2. Quantitative comparison of foreground extraction. In
addition to image quality metrics, we also conducted a user study
comparing our foreground generation with two matting baselines
on diverse real-world test images, evaluating practical effectiveness
and visual quality from the perspective of professional end users.
4.3. Qualitative and Quantitative Results
We report quantitative results on the MULAN test set to
demonstrate the effectiveness of our method compared with
baselines, as shown in Table 1. The metrics are computed
on background layers. Our adapted model achieves the best
performance across all evaluation metrics, confirming the ef-
fectiveness of our approach. Furthermore, when compared to
our base FLUX.1-Fill-dev model, our adaptation yields sub-
stantial improvements in background object removal, with a
gain of 1.71 dB in PSNR and a reduction of 9.99 in FID.
To better evaluate our model’s performance, and to fairly
compare against baselines for the foreground layers on real-
world images, we collect 40 diverse high-quality real-world
images. Since there is no open-source methods dedicated to
layer decomposition, we compare with two matting methods
that produce RGBA foregrounds, MattingAnything [21] and
DiffMatte [14]. We also conducted a user study with 18
independent researchers to assess the fidelity of the extracted
foreground layers. We present the quantitaive results in Table
2. We also include some examples of qualitative comparison
results in the Figure 6, image editing examples in Figure 7
and more in the supplementary materials.
4.4. Ablation Study
To evaluate the effectiveness of our design in adapting a
pre-trained image inpainting diffusion model for the image
layer decomposition task, we conduct a comprehensive ab-
lation study as shown in Table 3. This analysis underscores
the contribution of each design component, demonstrating
their roles in balancing generative capability with faithful
preservation of input details and contextual information.
4.4.1. The Impact of Base Model and Training Data
To investigate the relationship between image inpainting and
layer decomposition, we compare two base model choices:
a pre-trained inpainting model (FLUX.1-Fill-dev) and a
general image-to-image model (FLUX.1-Kontext-dev). As
shown in Table 3 :Kontext, switching to the FLUX.1-Kontext-
dev backbone leads to a performance drop, supporting our
hypothesis that layer decomposition is best approached as an
adaptation of the inpainting task. As expected, Table 3 also
shows that incorporating synthetic foregrounds improves
performance, validating one of the key advantages of our
training data design.
4.4.2. The Impact of Image-Mask Context
As shown in Figure 8, the image-mask context plays a crucial
role in our model by distinguishing between regions intended
for generation and those meant for preservation. This allows
the model to effectively control hallucinations arising from
the inherent tension between completing missing content
and faithfully retaining input details.
We also conduct a quantitative ablation study to evalu-
ate the impact of our carefully designed image-mask con-
text, as illustrated in Figure 4. Specifically, we compare
our full context design, using both foreground and back-
ground image-mask context {cf
I−M, cb
I−M} , with the stan-
dard background-only image-mask context cb
I−M typically
used in inpainting tasks. The results of this comparison
are reported in Table 3. When the foreground image-mask
context cf
I−M, is removed, we observe a drop of 0.26 dB
in PSNR on the object removal task. More importantly,
as shown in Figure 9, the model’s ability to faithfully ex-
tract foreground objects degrades significantly, beginning
to hallucinate or alter content within the extracted regions.
These findings validate the motivation behind our combined
foreground-background image-mask context design: the in-
clusion of cf
I−M plays a crucial role in mitigating hallucina-
tion and ensuring the faithful preservation of object regions
during layer decomposition.
4.4.3. The Impact of Multi-modal Context
We present both quantitative and qualitative evaluations to
assess the impact of multi-modal context. As shown in
Table 3, incorporating multi-modal context significantly im-
proves quantitative performance on the object removal task,
as evidenced by the drop in performance for -w/o cMM. We
further ablate each modality individually to analyze its contri-
bution to the final performance. More noticeably, Figure 10
demonstrates that the inclusion of multi-modal cues, such as
depth, segmentation, and edge maps, helps the model better
understand the semantics of the fill-in regions.
4.4.4. The Impact of LoRA Rank
As a general trade-off in LoRA-based Parameter-Efficient
Fine-Tuning (PEFT) frameworks, the choice of LoRA rank
16059


Image
SDI
PowerPaint
Flux-I
Ours: Background
Ours: Foreground
Figure 6. We present examples comparing our method against baselines on our collected real-world image test set for the object removal task.
These qualitative results highlight the visual differences in foreground removal accuracy, background reconstruction quality, and consistency
across various challenging scenes. Please zoom in for the best viewing quality.
Figure 7. Image editing examples. Layer decomposition enables manipulation of elements. Left: the original image, right: the edited image.
plays a crucial role. This trade-off is especially significant in
our case due to two key factors: 1) Our base model is a pre-
trained image inpainting diffusion model, originally trained
for a different task. Adapting it to the novel task of image
layer decomposition requires learning new capabilities while
preserving its existing generative priors. 2) Our training data
is entirely curated from public datasets and tools, which is
inferior compared to the commercial-grade datasets used for
training the original model. Together, these factors motivate
a careful investigation into how the LoRA rank impacts the
adaptation process, seeking an optimal trade-off between
preserving pre-trained priors and enabling the learning of
new functionality. We report the quantitative ablation results
in Table 3. As shown: a smaller rank 128 is insufficient for
16060


Figure 8. We compare foreground generation results from the
same input image using two different masks. The top row uses
an incomplete mask that excludes the human head, causing the
model to hallucinate or alter that region. The bottom row uses a
nearly complete mask that includes the head, allowing the model
to preserve it faithfully. This illustrates the importance of the input
mask in balancing generation and content preservation.
Method
PSNR ↑
SSIM ↑
LPIPS ↓
FID ↓
r128
26.34
0.92
0.09
33.92
r1024
27.15
0.92
0.09
27.32
-w/o cf
I−M
27.04
0.92
0.08
27.49
-w/o cMM
27.16
0.93
0.08
28.02
No synthetic foreground
27.18
0.92
0.08
27.11
Kontext
26.22
0.92
0.09
36.14
w/o edge
27.19
0.92
0.08
27.61
w/o seg
27.22
0.93
0.08
28.16
w/o depth
27.19
0.93
0.08
28.10
Ours
27.30
0.93
0.08
25.97
Table 3. Ablation Study: Quantitative comparison on the object
removal task to evaluate the effectiveness of our design, grouped by
ablation type: 1) LoRA rank: r128 and r1024 denote LoRA ranks
of 128 and 1024, respectively. 2) Context: -w/o cf
I−M: removes
the foreground image-mask context, -w/o cMM: removes the multi-
modal context. 3) The effect of removeing generated foregrounds
from training No synthetic foreground, 4) Base model: Kontext
replaces the inpainting backbone, 5) w/o edge, w/o seg, w/o depth
ablate each modality in the multi-modal context separately.
the model to fully learn the new task of layer decomposition.
A larger rank 1024 enables greater adaptation but overwrites
pre-trained priors, leading to hallucinations and sub-optimal
performance. Based on these findings, we select a LoRA
rank of 256 for our final model configuration, achieving the
best balance between adaptability and stability.
5. Limitations and Future Work
As shown in the Supplementary Material, our method fails
on some complex images including cluttered objects, large
occlusions, and objects held in fingers. We attribute it to
the lack of such intricate samples in the synthetic training
dataset, and believe it will be alleviated with better training
data in the future work.
(b)
(a)
Figure 9. Comparison of Ablation Models Using Different Image-
Mask Contexts for Image Layer Decomposition. We compare
models trained with the standard inpainting-only context cb
I−M and
our proposed dual-context design {cf
I−M, cb
I−M}. In (a), the fore-
ground output is generated using only cb
I−M, in (b), the foreground
is generated using the combined context. The key difference is in
content fidelity, model (a) tends to hallucinate or alter parts of the
foreground, while model (b) better preserves the original object,
demonstrating the importance of our dual-context design for faith-
ful layer decomposition.
(b)
(a)
Figure 10. Comparison of object removal with and without multi-
modal context. We compare object removal under two settings:
(a) without multi-modal context and (b) with multi-modal con-
text. The left side shows the input image, mask, and multi-modal
cues, including depth, segmentation, and edge maps; the right side
shows the corresponding outputs. Incorporating multi-modal con-
text clearly improves object removal by providing richer spatial
and semantic cues, reducing hallucinations and producing more
consistent, realistic reconstructions.
6. Conclusion
In this paper, we demonstrate that image layer decomposition
shares intrinsic similarities with in/outpainting. Leveraging
this insight, we show that unlike prior works, our approach
can achieve generative layer decomposition using only pub-
licly available data, a lightweight adaptation of an inpainting
model, and carefully designed modules to preserve context
and reduce hallucinations. Our method achieves state-of-the-
art performance with significantly lower data and computa-
tional requirements.
16061


References
[1] Tomer Amit, Tal Shaharbany, Eliya Nachmani, and Lior Wolf.
Segdiff: Image segmentation with diffusion probabilistic mod-
els. arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.00390, 2021. 2
[2] Aleksandr Nikolich Vladimir Arkhipkin Igor Pavlov Andrey
Kuznetsov Denis Dimitrov Arseniy Shakhmatov, Anton Raz-
zhigaev.
Kandinsky 2.2.
https://huggingface.
co/kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-2-
decoder-inpaint, 2023. 2
[3] Stephen Batifol, Andreas Blattmann, Frederic Boesel, Sak-
sham Consul, Cyril Diagne, Tim Dockhorn, Jack English,
Zion English, Patrick Esser, Sumith Kulal, et al. Flux. 1
kontext: Flow matching for in-context image generation and
editing in latent space. arXiv e-prints, pages arXiv–2506,
2025. 2, 5
[4] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel
Mendelevitch, Maciej Kilian, Dominik Lorenz, Yam Levi,
Zion English, Vikram Voleti, Adam Letts, et al.
Stable
video diffusion: Scaling latent video diffusion models to
large datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127, 2023. 2
[5] John Canny. A computational approach to edge detection.
IEEE Transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelli-
gence, (6):679–698, 2009. 5
[6] Jingxi Chen, Brandon Y Feng, Haoming Cai, Tianfu Wang,
Levi Burner, Dehao Yuan, Cornelia Fermuller, Christopher A
Metzler, and Yiannis Aloimonos. Repurposing pre-trained
video diffusion models for event-based video interpolation. In
Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
Conference, pages 12456–12466, 2025. 2
[7] Jingxi Chen, Zongxia Li, Zhichao Liu, Guangyao Shi, Xiyang
Wu, Fuxiao Liu, Cornelia Fermuller, Brandon Y Feng, and
Yiannis Aloimonos. First frame is the place to go for video
content customization.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.15700,
2025. 2
[8] Ciprian Corneanu, Raghudeep Gadde, and Aleix M Martinez.
Latentpaint: Image inpainting in latent space with diffusion
models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF winter conference
on applications of computer vision, pages 4334–4343, 2024.
2
[9] diffusers. stable-diffusion-xl-1.0-inpainting-0.1. https:
//huggingface.co/diffusers/stable-diffus
ion-xl-1.0-inpainting-0.1, 2023. 2, 5
[10] Sicheng Gao, Xuhui Liu, Bohan Zeng, Sheng Xu, Yan-
jing Li, Xiaoyan Luo, Jianzhuang Liu, Xiantong Zhen, and
Baochang Zhang. Implicit diffusion models for continuous
super-resolution. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 10021–
10030, 2023. 2
[11] Ian J Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing
Xu, David Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair, Aaron Courville, and
Yoshua Bengio. Generative adversarial nets. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 27, 2014. 2
[12] Martin Heusel, Hubert Ramsauer, Thomas Unterthiner, Bern-
hard Nessler, and Sepp Hochreiter. Gans trained by a two
time-scale update rule converge to a local nash equilibrium.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 30, 2017.
5
[13] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffu-
sion probabilistic models. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020. 2
[14] Yihan Hu, Yiheng Lin, Wei Wang, Yao Zhao, Yunchao Wei,
and Humphrey Shi. Diffusion for natural image matting. In
European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 181–199.
Springer, 2024. 2, 6
[15] Andrew Jaegle, Felix Gimeno, Andy Brock, Oriol Vinyals,
Andrew Zisserman, and Joao Carreira. Perceiver: General
perception with iterative attention. In International confer-
ence on machine learning, pages 4651–4664. PMLR, 2021.
3
[16] Xuan Ju, Xian Liu, Xintao Wang, Yuxuan Bian, Ying Shan,
and Qiang Xu. Brushnet: A plug-and-play image inpainting
model with decomposed dual-branch diffusion. In European
Conference on Computer Vision, pages 150–168. Springer,
2024. 5
[17] Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding varia-
tional bayes. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6114, 2013. 2
[18] Alina Kuznetsova, Hassan Rom, Neil Alldrin, Jasper Uijlings,
Ivan Krasin, Jordi Pont-Tuset, Shahab Kamali, Stefan Popov,
Matteo Malloci, Alexander Kolesnikov, et al. The open im-
ages dataset v4: Unified image classification, object detection,
and visual relationship detection at scale. International jour-
nal of computer vision, 128(7):1956–1981, 2020. 5
[19] Gihyun Kwon and Jong Chul Ye. Diffusion-based image
translation using disentangled style and content representa-
tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.15264, 2022. 2
[20] Black Forest Labs. Flux. https://github.com/bla
ck-forest-labs/flux, 2024. 2
[21] Jiachen Li, Jitesh Jain, and Humphrey Shi. Matting anything.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 1775–1785, 2024. 6
[22] Andreas Lugmayr, Martin Danelljan, Andres Romero, Fisher
Yu, Radu Timofte, and Luc Van Gool. Repaint: Inpainting us-
ing denoising diffusion probabilistic models. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 11461–11471, 2022. 1, 2
[23] Kangfu Mei, Hossein Talebi, Mojtaba Ardakani, Vishal M Pa-
tel, Peyman Milanfar, and Mauricio Delbracio. The power of
context: How multimodality improves image super-resolution.
In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-
tion Conference, pages 23141–23152, 2025. 3
[24] William Peebles and Saining Xie. Scalable diffusion models
with transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF inter-
national conference on computer vision, pages 4195–4205,
2023. 2
[25] Fabio Quattrini, Vittorio Pippi, Silvia Cascianelli, and Rita
Cucchiara. Alfie: Democratising rgba image generation with
no. In European Conference on Computer Vision, pages
38–55. Springer, 2024. 2
[26] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz,
Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer. High-resolution image
synthesis with latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 10684–10695, 2022. 2
16062


[27] Shuyao Shang, Zhengyang Shan, Guangxing Liu, LunQian
Wang, XingHua Wang, Zekai Zhang, and Jinglin Zhang. Res-
diff: Combining cnn and diffusion model for image super-
resolution. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artifi-
cial Intelligence, pages 8975–8983, 2024. 1
[28] Roman Suvorov, Elizaveta Logacheva, Anton Mashikhin,
Anastasia Remizova, Arsenii Ashukha, Aleksei Silvestrov,
Naejin Kong, Harshith Goka, Kiwoong Park, and Victor Lem-
pitsky. Resolution-robust large mask inpainting with fourier
convolutions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF winter confer-
ence on applications of computer vision, pages 2149–2159,
2022. 2
[29] Keyu Tian, Yi Jiang, Zehuan Yuan, Bingyue Peng, and Li-
wei Wang. Visual autoregressive modeling: Scalable image
generation via next-scale prediction. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 37:84839–84865, 2024. 2
[30] Petru-Daniel Tudosiu, Yongxin Yang, Shifeng Zhang, Fei
Chen, Steven McDonagh, Gerasimos Lampouras, Ignacio
Iacobacci, and Sarah Parisot. Mulan: A multi layer annotated
dataset for controllable text-to-image generation. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, pages 22413–22422, 2024. 2, 5
[31] Zhou Wang, Alan C Bovik, Hamid R Sheikh, and Eero P
Simoncelli. Image quality assessment: from error visibility to
structural similarity. IEEE transactions on image processing,
13(4):600–612, 2004. 5
[32] Runpu Wei, Zijin Yin, Shuo Zhang, Lanxiang Zhou, Xueyi
Wang, Chao Ban, Tianwei Cao, Hao Sun, Zhongjiang He,
Kongming Liang, et al. Omnieraser: Remove objects and
their effects in images with paired video-frame data. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2501.07397, 2025. 5
[33] Chenfei Wu, Jiahao Li, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kaiyuan
Gao, Kun Yan, Sheng-ming Yin, Shuai Bai, Xiao Xu, Yilei
Chen, et al. Qwen-image technical report. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2508.02324, 2025. 5
[34] Bin Xia, Yulun Zhang, Shiyin Wang, Yitong Wang, Xinglong
Wu, Yapeng Tian, Wenming Yang, Radu Timotfe, and Luc
Van Gool. Diffi2i: Efficient diffusion model for image-to-
image translation. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis
and Machine Intelligence, 2024. 1
[35] Enze Xie, Wenhai Wang, Zhiding Yu, Anima Anandkumar,
Jose M Alvarez, and Ping Luo.
Segformer: Simple and
efficient design for semantic segmentation with transformers.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 34:12077–
12090, 2021. 5
[36] Shaoan Xie, Zhifei Zhang, Zhe Lin, Tobias Hinz, and Kun
Zhang. Smartbrush: Text and shape guided object inpainting
with diffusion model. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF con-
ference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages
22428–22437, 2023. 2
[37] Jinrui Yang, Qing Liu, Yijun Li, Soo Ye Kim, Daniil Pakho-
mov, Mengwei Ren, Jianming Zhang, Zhe Lin, Cihang Xie,
and Yuyin Zhou. Generative image layer decomposition with
visual effects. In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition Conference, pages 7643–7653, 2025. 1,
2
[38] Lihe Yang, Bingyi Kang, Zilong Huang, Zhen Zhao, Xiao-
gang Xu, Jiashi Feng, and Hengshuang Zhao. Depth anything
v2. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:
21875–21911, 2024. 5
[39] Jiahui Yu, Zhe Lin, Jimei Yang, Xiaohui Shen, Xin Lu, and
Thomas S Huang. Generative image inpainting with con-
textual attention. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 5505–5514,
2018. 2
[40] Tao Yu, Zongyu Guo, Xin Jin, Shilin Wu, Zhibo Chen, Weip-
ing Li, Zhizheng Zhang, and Sen Liu. Region normalization
for image inpainting. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference
on artificial intelligence, pages 12733–12740, 2020. 2
[41] Lvmin Zhang and Maneesh Agrawala. Transparent image
layer diffusion using latent transparency.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.17113, 2024. 2, 5
[42] Richard Zhang, Phillip Isola, Alexei A Efros, Eli Shechtman,
and Oliver Wang. The unreasonable effectiveness of deep
features as a perceptual metric. In Proceedings of the IEEE
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages
586–595, 2018. 5
[43] Zixin Zhu, Haoxiang Li, Xuelu Feng, He Wu, Chunming
Qiao, and Junsong Yuan. Georemover: Removing objects and
their causal visual artifacts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.18538,
2025. 5
[44] Junhao Zhuang, Yanhong Zeng, Wenran Liu, Chun Yuan,
and Kai Chen. A task is worth one word: Learning with
task prompts for high-quality versatile image inpainting. In
European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 195–211.
Springer, 2024. 5
16063
