Illustrator’s Depth: Monocular Layer Index Prediction for Image Decomposition
Nissim Maruani∗
Inria, UCA
Peiying Zhang
CityUHK
Siddhartha Chaudhuri
Adobe Research
Matthew Fisher
Adobe Research
Nanxuan Zhao
Adobe Research
Vladimir G. Kim
Adobe Research
Pierre Alliez
Inria, UCA
Mathieu Desbrun
Inria/X, IP Paris
Wang Yifan
Adobe Research
Abstract
We introduce Illustrator’s Depth, a novel definition of
depth that addresses a key challenge in digital content cre-
ation: decomposing flat images into editable, ordered lay-
ers. Inspired by an artist’s compositional process, illus-
trator’s depth infers a layer index for each pixel, forming
an interpretable image decomposition through a discrete,
globally consistent ordering of elements optimized for ed-
itability. We also propose and train a neural network us-
ing a curated dataset of layered vector graphics to predict
layering directly from raster inputs. Our layer index in-
ference unlocks a range of powerful downstream applica-
tions. In particular, it significantly outperforms state-of-the-
art baselines for image vectorization while also enabling
high-fidelity text-to-vector-graphics generation, automatic
3D relief generation from 2D images, and intuitive depth-
aware editing. By reframing depth from a physical quantity
to a creative abstraction, illustrator’s depth prediction of-
fers a new foundation for editable image decomposition.
1. Introduction
The organization of a digital artwork into a stack of layers is
a fundamental concept in creative software. This paradigm,
common to both vector-based and raster graphics tools, is
central to the creative process as it allows for the indepen-
dent manipulation and editing of individual compositional
elements.
This layering is also inherently related to the
physical depth of objects within a scene, in that closer el-
ements obscure those that are farther away.
While recent neural architectures can efficiently and ac-
curately predict monocular depth from images [2, 54] or
compute panoptic segmentations [15, 33], they are unable to
decompose input illustrations or images into useful, ordered
layers for three main reasons. First, illustrative layers differ
*Work performed during an internship at Adobe Research
Illustrator's Depth Estimation Model
Image Vectorization
Intuitive Segmentation
3D Relief Fabrication
Depth-aware Editing
Text to Vector Generation
background
foreground
Figure 1. Overview. Given an input image, our model predicts
Illustrator’s Depth, a learned ordering of compositional layers that
reflects how an artist might have structured the image layout. This
representation, applicable broadly to illustrations (left), paintings
(middle), or even some realistic images (right), enables multiple
downstream applications such as vectorization, intuitive editing,
text-to-vector generation, and 3D relief fabrication.
fundamentally from physical depths: important visual ele-
ments such as shadows may be placed above the objects on
which they are cast, and non-orthogonal flat surfaces with
overlapping physical depth gradients may nevertheless be
mapped to discrete, sortable layers (see dominoes in Fig. 2).
Second, because illustrations typically appear on flat media
(i.e., book pages, posters, or paintings), monocular depth
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
26824


estimation models are explicitly trained to ignore them (see
t-shirt in Fig. 2). Third, illustrative layering is conceptually
independent from standard panoptic segmentation: contem-
porary segmentation models [33] generate predictions with-
out encoding any relative ordering, addressing fundamen-
tally distinct aspects of scene understanding. Layer depths
derive, instead, from a subtle mix of segmentation and depth
ordering to facilitate both design and editing.
Although rarely acknowledged as such, layer inference
is a core challenge in vectorization that impacts numerous
downstream applications by offering an intuitive layer de-
composition enhancing editing capabilities. Existing state-
of-the-art methods, however, remain limited in scope, han-
dling only simple inputs [44, 51] or relying on brittle
heuristics [11, 18, 23, 29, 61, 62] which do not consis-
tently yield useful results. In the raster domain, several ap-
proaches have explored transparent layer extraction or gen-
eration [20, 28, 46, 50, 53, 56], yet these operate exclusively
at the object level. To the best of our knowledge, no existing
technique achieves fine-grained image layer decomposition.
We introduce Illustrator’s Depth, a novel concept for rep-
resenting the structural layering of vector graphics Specif-
ically, we define the illustrator’s depth of an image as the
inverse mapping from each pixel to its corresponding layer
index in its digital mockup, effectively capturing the spa-
tial and compositional ordering of the artwork. We infer
illustrators’ depth from arbitrary images automatically by
leveraging a Depth Pro based neural network [2] trained
on a large, curated SVG dataset. Our model operates in
a feed-forward manner to predict pixel-level layer indices,
enabling a wide range of applications such as image edit-
ing and depth-aware vector graphics manipulation. More
specifically, we present a number of contributions:
• We introduce the notion of Illustrator’s Depth and train a
network to predict it, enabling fast layer decomposition;
• We show that incorporating our model into standard
vectorization pipelines yields consistently layered SVGs
with state-of-the-art visual fidelity;
• We propose a novel method for evaluating layer quality
in vector graphics by rasterizing the predicted illustrator’s
depth and assessing its consistency with the ground truth;
• We demonstrate that coupling our pipeline with Text2Img
models substantially enhances the generation of high-
quality, editable vector illustrations from text;
• Finally, we showcase other applications of illustrator’s
depth in layer-based segmentation, depth-aware object in-
sertion, tactile graphics creation, and artwork analysis.
2. Related Work
Monocular depth estimation (MDE). Classical learning
approaches for depth estimation from images [6, 8, 12, 36,
41, 60] have evolved into strong backbones trained on di-
verse data [1, 2, 31, 54]. They yield finely detailed and con-
tinuous (relative or metric) depth maps that serve as robust
physical priors. Yet, they remain blind to content without
true volume, like printed posters or patterns on clothing. In
contrast, our objective is to produce a new kind of depth
prioritizing user editability over metric prediction.
Layered depth for view synthesis. Layered Depth Im-
ages store multiple depth samples per ray to model oc-
clusions [5, 43], while Multiplane Images approximate
scenes by many fronto-parallel planes for novel-view ren-
dering [24, 63]. These abstractions excel at detecting dis-
occlusions and synthesizing new views, but they produce
multi-sample or multi-plane depths, not a single discrete in-
dex per pixel that a designer can restack. Furthermore, they
focus on physical depth like MDE, unlike our illustrator’s
depth which focuses on layer index prediction.
Amodal / instance / panoptic segmentation. Moving from
geometry to semantics, segmentation families group re-
gions by categories, but do not encode geometric order-
ing. Standard instance and panoptic methods provide high-
quality visible masks [3, 4, 10, 14–16, 32] without global
per-pixel depth ordering.
Amodal instance and amodal-
panoptic formulations extend masks to occluded regions
(for countable “thing” categories, typically), while “stuff”
categories remain modal; representative datasets and mod-
els include [25, 30, 52, 65]. Occlusion-aware and amodal
(a) Input Image
(b) Illustrator’s Depth
(Ours)
(c) Physical Depth
(Depth Pro [2])
Figure 2.
Physical vs. Illustrator’s Depth. Unlike monocular
depth estimation, illustrator’s depth (middle, in false colors) pro-
duces piecewise-flat regions corresponding to layers and preserves
compositional ordering even for printed or flat elements (e.g.,
shadows, drawings, or textures) that lack real-world depth (right).
26825


transformers refine completion and boundary reasoning [5,
13, 19, 47], yet supervision and metrics remain instance-
centric or pairwise. None imposes a single, transitive or-
dering across all pixels, which is the target of our globally-
consistent ordinal layer map.
Generative decompositions for editing. Inspired by tra-
ditional approaches [7, 37, 45], editing-focused decompo-
sitions produce per-subject RGBA layers to facilitate local
edits. Examples include real-time human matting [21], gen-
erative pipelines that output editable layers for subjects and
effects [20, 53], and atlas-based video methods that unwrap
scenes into a few textures with an alpha channel for tem-
poral consistency [18, 22]. These layers are effective for
targeted edits but are independent and not constrained to a
global, per-pixel depth order. Instead, we seek a single “il-
lustrator’s depth” map that provides an coherent ordering of
all pixels in order to facilitate further editing.
Layering in vectorization. An obvious application of our
layer index estimation is vectorization: given our per-pixel
ordinal map, standard raster-to-vector pipelines can group
paths by layer and export edit-ready stacks. Existing sys-
tems based on heuristics or optimization [11, 18, 23, 29, 62]
often fail to infer a clean, useful layering. Learning-based
approaches [22, 34, 38, 39, 55] can, in principle, learn layer
order from examples, but their training often compounds all
the steps of the vectorization process (including B´ezier con-
trol points), resulting in frequent reconstruction failures on
complex inputs. Very recent works explore explicit layer
predictions for better editing [44, 51], but remain limited
in the amount of paths and details they generate. Instead,
our layer index prediction provides a supervised signal for
ordering itself, allowing traditional vectorizers to assemble
SVGs in a manner most useful for further editing.
3. Method
We now introduce our notion of illustrator’s depth in
Sec. 3.1, before describing our dataset curation in Sec. 3.2,
and finally presenting our neural network implementation
and training in Sec. 3.3. Evaluation tests and ablation stud-
ies will be presented and discussed at length in Sec. 4.
3.1. Illustrator’s Depth
From an input illustration I, represented as a raster H×W
RGB image, we refer to its illustrator’s depth as the map-
ping from each image pixel of the input to a layer index
i∈{1...N}. Conceptually, this map represents how an artist
might have structured the image as a composition of N sep-
arate layers (see Fig. 3), each corresponding to a different
element or object drawn at a particular depth. Thus, illustra-
tor’s depth provides a per-pixel layer assignment that cap-
tures an interpretable notion of structural depth implicit in
the artist’s compositional workflow, which can then be di-
Model
Color-Constant
Clustering
Depth-Aware
Layering
& Grouping
Hole-filling
& Tracing
Figure 3.
Depth-aware Image Vectorization.
Our predicted
illustrator’s depth map (bottom left) can be integrated in tradi-
tional vectorization pipelines to produce well-layered SVG images
(right, in 3D for clarity). On this example, our model allows the
grouping of two disconnected white clusters to form a single back-
ground layer, while accurately separating the white highlights.
rectly leveraged for editing purposes. This paper proposes
predicting this mapping from an image using a neural net-
work and a curated training set of layered compositions,
yielding an illustrator’s depth image Dθ(I)∈RH×W where
depth is treated as a continuous value rather than a discrete
layer index as it still captures relative ordering while allow-
ing straightforward binning into discrete values if necessary.
3.2. Curating a Training Dataset
Training our network to predict Illustrator’s Depth requires
a large-scale dataset of images paired with their ground-
truth layer structure. Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) files
are an ideal source for this data, as they are inherently com-
posed of layered vector paths that define the stacking order
of a composition. We leverage this property by develop-
ing a three-stage data preparation pipeline: first, we source
a suitable dataset of layered SVGs; second, we curate it to
reduce ambiguity; and finally, we rasterize the vector files
into corresponding image and depth map pairs for training.
Data sourcing. While SVGs provide a structural founda-
tion, the quality of their layering is crucial. Many SVG
datasets, while visually correct when rendered, contain dis-
organized or programmatically generated layers that do not
reflect an artist’s intent. Yet, effective learning depends on
a dataset with intuitively and consistently structured com-
positions.
After reviewing existing options, we selected
the MMSVG-Illustration dataset [55], which features SVGs
where elements are layered in a consistent and meaningful
way, with layers systematically organized from the lowest
index for the background to the highest index for the fore-
ground, and outline strokes always placed above their cor-
responding color fills for instance.
Data curation. Even a high-quality dataset like MMSVG
contains inherent ambiguities that can hinder learning.
Artistic layering is often subjective; for instance, multiple
distinct objects might logically share the same depth level,
and different artists may have different layering habits. This
26826


(a) Input
(b) GT
(c) Ours
(d) Dep.A.-v2 (e) DepthPro
Figure 4. Predicted illustrator’s depth evaluation. Conventional
monocular depth models (DepthAnything-v2 [54] (d), Depth-
Pro [2] (e)) predict physical depth; in contrast, our model (c) accu-
rately infers layer indices suitable for illustration decomposition.
variability can create a noisy training signal. To normalize
these variations and create a more consistent ground truth,
we perform two curation steps. First, we merge consecu-
tive layers that share the same RGB color to simplify the
structure. Second, we exclude ambiguous cases where non-
consecutive layers of the same color overlap in the final ren-
dered image, as this significantly improves training stability.
Ground-truth rasterization. Once the SVG dataset is cu-
rated, the final step is to generate the rasterized image-depth
pairs for training. For each curated SVG file, we generate
its corresponding RGB input image I and ground-truth il-
lustrator’s depth map D(I) of size H×W through a custom
rasterization process. First, we create a temporary version
of the SVG where each layer’s original color is replaced by
a unique color representing its layer index i in base 256: the
index is thus encoded across the RGB channels via
 i mod 256, ⌊i/256⌋mod 256, ⌊i/2562⌋mod 256

.
We then rasterize this modified SVG; the resulting “false
color” image is converted back into a per-pixel integer depth
map using the formula D(I)=R + 256·G + 2562·B. This
encoding strategy allows us to efficiently represent a large
number of layers with virtually no additional data loading
overhead. All the resulting pairs {Ik, D(Ik)}k of images
and their illustrator’s depths form our training dataset.
3.3. Neural Network & Training
Model. Predicting illustrator’s depth requires reasoning
about object boundaries, occlusion, and grouping. While
distinct from physical depth estimation, this task benefits
immensely from the powerful priors learned by state-of-the-
art monocular depth estimation (MDE) models. In particu-
lar, we find that Depth Pro [2], built on Dino-v2 [26] and
equipped with a multi-scale encoder, provides a robust fea-
ture extractor that allows our model to generalize well from
our training set of simple vector graphics to complex, artis-
tic images, as we will demonstrate in Sec. 4. We initialize
our model with Depth Pro’s pre-trained weights, leveraging
its learned understanding of geometry and occlusion as a
crucial prior for our task to enable broad generalization.
Scale-invariant loss function. In natural images, distant
objects correspond to large physical depth values, which are
inherently more challenging to estimate accurately. There-
fore, most MDE models [2, 31, 54] learn inverse depth
values 1/d, prioritizing the accuracy of foreground objects
over distant ones. In contrast, illustrations are composed in
a structured, layer-wise manner from background to fore-
ground, where depth values typically range from 1 to N.
In this setting, estimating the illustrator’s depth is not in-
herently harder for background layers than for foreground
ones. Instead of learning in disparity space, we thus train
our model to predict discrete ground-truth layer indices
(1, ..., N) directly, assigning equal importance to all image
layers (see ablation studies in Sec. 4.1). Our primary objec-
tive, however, is to recover the correct relative ordering of
these layers rather than their absolute index values. To focus
the training on this relative structure, and remain robust to
the potentially large range of N, we adopt a scale-invariant
normalization scheme similar to MiDaS [31]. For any depth
map D, we compute its median m and mean absolute devi-
ation s, and normalize each depth value d as ˆd:=(d−m)/s.
We then train the network using a Mean Absolute Error
(MAE) loss on these normalized maps, i.e., using the loss:
LMAE(D(I), Dθ(I)) = | ˆD(I) −ˆDθ(I)|.
(1)
Training. The network is trained on our SVG dataset us-
ing standard training practices, including data augmentation
(color jitter, random inversion, random blur) and a cosine
learning rate schedule. Additionally, we follow [2] by em-
plying two distinct learning rates for the encoder (DINO-v2
[26]) and the CNN-based decoder. Details are provided in
Sec. 4, the Supplementary Material, and the code.
Post-processing. As our network outputs pixel-wise illus-
trator’s depth estimates, optional post-processing can be ap-
plied to derive discrete layer indices. Depending on the tar-
get application, two common strategies are advisable: (1)
direct segmentation of depth values using binning or thresh-
olding, and (2) clustering in RGB space followed by assign-
ing each cluster its median depth. We typically adopt the
first strategy for raster image processing (Sec. 4.4), whereas
the second is better suited for vectorization tasks (Secs. 4.2
and 4.3) where inputs typically exhibit color-consistent re-
gions. In the latter case, clusters with similar colors and
depths can be further merged to simplify the resulting SVG
paths (see Fig. 5). Notably, even without post-processing,
our predicted illustrator’s depth maps are visually coherent
and structurally clean, see Figs. 1, 2, 4 and 8.
4. Experiments and Applications
In this section, we outline our training setup in Sec. 4.1
and benchmark our model against state-of-the-art monoc-
ular depth estimators. Then we demonstrate a variety of ap-
plications of illustrator’s depth. First, we embed our trained
26827


Rasterized RGB
Rasterized Depth
Rasterized RGB
Rasterized Depth
(a) GT
(b) Ours + [29, 42]
(c) Vtracer [29]
(d) L.I.M. [61]
(e) LIVE [23]
(f) Starvector [38]
(g) O-SVG [55]
Figure 5. Image vectorization with illustrator’s depth. Paired with standard vectorization pipelines, our method produces editable,
depth-ordered SVGs that closely preserve the structure of the input image. Compared to heuristic, optimization-driven, or learning-based
baselines, our approach systematically yields much cleaner layering and higher visual fidelity.
model into a vectorization pipeline (Sec. 4.2), which out-
performs state-of-the-art methods, and show how it enables
a creative, fully editable workflow when paired with gener-
ative image models (Sec. 4.3). We then showcase diverse
raster-based editing tools enhanced by our predicted illus-
trator’s depths (Sec. 4.4), including relief generation for tac-
tile graphics and layer-wise decomposition.
4.1. Predicting Illustrator’s Depth
Training. As detailed in Sec. 3, our model is trained on the
MMSVG-Illustration dataset [55]. Following data clean-
ing and rasterization to a resolution of 1536 × 1536, the
dataset comprises approximately 100K consistently layered
SVG images, with 80% allocated for training and 20% re-
served for evaluation. In line with [61], we randomly select
100 images for quantitative analysis — see Supplementary
Material for results on the SVGX-Core dataset and nearest
Table 1. Evaluation of illustrator’s depth on MMSVG. While
models trained for physical depth perform poorly, our method
achieves near-perfect layer ordering and low layering error.
Order ↑
MAE ↓
MSE ↓
Depth Pro [2]
0.636
1.44
4.76
Depth Anything-v2 [54]
0.791
1.16
3.58
Ours
0.987
0.12
0.26
Table 2. Impact of key components on illustrator’s depth. Re-
moving depth prior, data cleaning, or training in disparity space
degrades layer-order consistency and accuracy, at times signifi-
cantly, confirming the contribution of each component to the over-
all performance of our layer index predictions.
Depth prior
initialization
Data
cleaning
Direct index
training
Order ↑
MAE ↓
MSE ↓
✓
✓
0.903
0.51
1.17
✓
✓
0.905
0.53
1.21
✓
✓
0.980
0.50
1.88
✓
✓
✓
0.981
0.16
0.29
neighbors analysis. Training is done for 40 epochs on 8
Nvidia® A100 GPUs, with a cosine learning rate schedule,
a max learning rate of 5 ·10−6, and a batch size of 8.
Baselines. We compare our approach with two state-of-
the-art monocular depth estimation (MDE) methods, Depth
Pro [2] and Depth Anything-v2 [54].
Metrics. We evaluate performance by rendering illustra-
tor’s depth maps from ground-truth SVGs as described in
Sec. 3.2. Since each method produces depth estimates in
its own scale, we first normalize all predicted depth maps
using the procedure described in Sec. 3.3 prior to comput-
ing Mean Squared Error (MSE) and Mean Absolute Error
(MAE). While both MSE and MAE assess pixel-wise depth
accuracy, many of our target applications require a globally
26828


Table 3. Evaluation of the vectorization. Here, we test different vectorization methods — grouped by layering strategies — on the vali-
dation set of the MMSVG dataset. Our approach achieves the best combination of layering accuracy, path compactness, and reconstruction
fidelity, systematically outperforming heuristic, optimization-based, and data-driven baselines.
Layering Quality
Visual Fidelity
Method
Layering Prior
Order ↑
MAE ↓
MSE ↓
Path Number ↓
MSE (×10−2) ↓
SSIM ↑
LPIPS ↓
Vtracer [29]+Potrace [42]
Heuristics
0.694
1.67
8.68
0.83
0.019
0.997
0.005
Less Is More [61]
Heuristics
0.746
2.43
21.10
5.54
0.663
0.961
0.043
LIVE [23]
Optimization-based
0.838
4.88
96.91
8.62
0.297
0.946
0.053
Starvector [38]
Data-driven
0.918
1.52
9.75
0.53
9.123
0.858
0.302
OmniSVG [55]
Data-driven
0.925
1.31
8.08
0.54
9.997
0.830
0.317
Ours + [29, 42]
Data-driven
0.987
0.46
2.09
0.16
0.018
0.997
0.005
consistent layer ordering rather than precise depth values.
Therefore, following Zhang et al. [60], we further evalu-
ate depth ordering consistency by randomly sampling pixel
pairs from the ground truth and predictions, and checking
whether their relative depth order is preserved (see Supple-
mentary Material for details). The resulting depth ordering
consistency metric (abbreviated as Order in Tabs. 1-3) mea-
sures the percentage of correctly ordered pixel pairs, provid-
ing a complementary measure of global depth consistency.
Results. While related, physical depth and illustrator’s
depth do capture fundamentally different concepts (Fig. 2).
Standard MDE models, trained to predict real-world geom-
etry, struggle to recover correct layer ordering in illustra-
tions (Fig. 4); our model, purposely trained to infer layer
indices, achieves markedly better results, outperforming all
baselines by a wide margin (Tab. 1). Inference takes less
than one second on current GPUs as reported in [2].
Ablation studies. We conduct a series of ablation studies
to validate our design choices discussed in Sec. 3. As de-
tailed in Tab. 2, both Depth Pro initialization (leveraging a
physical depth prior from weights learned on millions of im-
ages) and data cleaning (removing inconsistencies and am-
biguities in ground-truth layers) boost the depth ordering
consistency quite sharply. Although training directly with
layer indices (1, ..., N) instead of disparity space (1/d)
yields comparable global ordering scores, it facilitates a
more balanced optimization between foreground and back-
ground layers: this results in better depth transitions and a
clear advantage across all evaluation metrics; see the Sup-
plementary Material for additional qualitative evaluations.
4.2. Vectorization
Image vectorization, which consists in converting raster im-
ages to vector graphics, is a particularly straightforward ap-
plication of illustrator’s depth.
Pipeline. Our model integrates seamlessly into existing vec-
torization pipelines such as VTracer [29], where we replace
area-based sorting heuristics with our predicted illustrator’s
depth. We first compute color clusters, sort them using our
layer index prediction, inpaint layers to fill holes and bridge
gaps (with, e.g., Scikit-Image [48]), before vectorizing each
layer with Potrace [42]. The whole process, including our
illustrator’s depth prediction, only takes seconds.
Baselines. We benchmark our pipeline against key state-
of-the-art approaches, based on simple area heuristics
(VTracer [29] combined with Potrace [42] including the
same cleanups we use in our method for fairness) or more
advanced cluster-sorting strategies (Less Is More [61]),
optimization methods (LIVE [23]), and LLM-based tools
(StarVector [38], OmniSVG [55]).
Metrics. Vectorization demands both compactness and ac-
curacy for best editability. We thus measure layering quality
using the depth ordering consistency (Order), mean squared
error (MSE), and mean absolute error (MAE), as well as
path count errors |N−˜N|/N to compare the number of paths
in ground-truth (N) vs. reconstructed ( ˜N) SVGs. We then
evaluate visual fidelity by measuring the rasterized output
compared the input using MSE in RGB space, Structural
Similarity Index Measure (SSIM) [64], and Learned Per-
ceptual Image Patch Similarity (LPIPS) [58].
Results. Although most vectorization methods produce out-
puts that look quite close to the input raster images, visual-
izing their layer indices in false colors reveals substantial
differences in layering quality (Fig. 5). Methods relying on
heuristics such as VTracer [29] and Less is More [61] fre-
quently misorder layers; for instance, spiral binding holes
in the calendar in Fig. 5 are incorrectly positioned on
top despite belonging to the background.
Optimization-
based LIVE [23] introduces spurious layers and shapes,
while LLM-based approaches [38, 55] often fail (some-
times, spectacularly) to achieve full reconstruction. In con-
trast, our pipeline is able to faithfully reconstruct the in-
put while producing layer indices close to the ground truth.
Additionally, quantitative results from Tab. 3 confirm these
observations: our method matches VTracer’s reconstruc-
tion fidelity while outperforming all SOTA competitors in
layer-index accuracy. Interestingly, our layering evaluation
reveals a clear divide between methods excelling at recon-
struction but weak in layering (VTracer, Less is More) and
those with opposite strengths (Starvector, OmniSVG). Our
approach thus combines the power of traditional vectoriz-
ers with the quality of data-driven layer index prediction,
26829


enabling state-of-the-art performance on both fronts.
4.3. Text-to-Vector-Graphics Generation
The creation of high-quality vector graphics remains a chal-
lenging problem.
Direct generation techniques, such as
those employing Score Distillation Sampling (SDS) [27,
57] or Large Language Models (LLMs) [38, 39, 55], have
not yet matched the visual fidelity achieved by state-of-the-
art text-to-image generative models. Here again, our illus-
trator’s depth neural prediction can dramatically help in ob-
taining high-quality editable illustrations.
Pipeline. Leveraging recent advances in high-quality im-
age generation [9, 17], we first generate vector-style raster
images (prompts are detailed in the Supplementary Mate-
rial). These raster images are subsequently transformed into
structured, editable, and layered SVG using our specialized
vectorization pipeline described in Sec. 4.2.
Results. Fig. 6 presents examples generated via Flux [17]
and postprocessed with illustrator’s depth. The resulting
SVG illustrations exhibit high visual complexity and coher-
ent layer organization, facilitating the intuitive grouping and
editing of individual elements (see supplementary video).
Our vectorization can be similarly integrated to Nano Ba-
nana [9] to offer a more advanced, multi-stage generative
workflow as illustrated in Fig. 7. We also show comparisons
with Neural Path Representation [57], NeuralSVG [27], and
LayerTracer [44], in the Supplementary Material.
Figure 6. Vector graphics generation. By augmenting text-to-
image diffusion models like Flux [17] with illustrator’s depth, gen-
erated images can be automatically transformed into editable vec-
tor graphics. Layers (bottom, displayed from front to back) facili-
tate intuitive manipulation of individual elements.
4.4. Beyond Vector Graphics
Despite being trained exclusively on depth data generated
from simple SVG images, our model demonstrates a re-
markable ability to generalize beyond this narrow scope. It
successfully infers useful illustrator’s depths across highly
diverse inputs, ranging from simple illustrations to complex
artistic renderings, most likely due to our use of pretrained
priors [2, 26] learned from millions of images. While quan-
titative evaluation of this generalization is difficult in the
absence of ground truth layerings (we provide an attempt in
Ours
Ours
+
+
Figure 7. Illustrator’s depth in generative workflows. Starting
from a cellphone photo and a rug texture (left), a pipeline based
on Nano Banana [9] and illustrator’s depth synthesizes a vector-
graphics illustration and converts it into a layered SVG, supporting
depth-aware editing such as recoloring and object insertion.
our Supplementary Material), we now showcase two practi-
cal applications leveraging this generalization ability. Addi-
tional qualitative results and discussions of failure cases are
provided in Figs.1 & 2, and in the Supplementary Material.
4.4.1. Automatic Relief Generation From a Single Image
Task. Relief is a sculptural method where elements remain
attached to a solid background to give the impression that
the sculpture has been raised above the background. Bas-
relief, a shallow form of this technique, is widely applied,
from coinage to architectural ornament [59]. Current meth-
ods for generating 3D reliefs from 2D images are funda-
(a) Input Image
(b) Illustrator’s Depth
(c) Relief, 3D rendering
Figure 8. Automatic relief generation from single images. With
no manual intervention, illustrator’s depth (middle) can be con-
verted into 3D surfaces by interpreting predicted depth as eleva-
tion. The resulting meshes, shown on the right, demonstrate how
images can be transformed into tactile or printable reliefs.
26830


mentally limited by their reliance on user-defined depth or-
dering [35]. We eliminate this user interaction entirely by
leveraging the fully automated output of our model.
Pipeline. Given an input image, our system first generates
a pixel-wise illustrator’s depth map dθ(i, j).
This depth
is then directly used to build a triangulated surface by
transforming each pixel into a vertex with 3D coordinates
(i, j, dθ(i, j)), and triangulating adjacent vertices.
Results. The resulting mesh easily integrates into any 3D
application as illustrated in Fig. 8. Crucially, our illustra-
tor’s depth transforms flat paintings into 3D objects with-
out any manual annotation, offering an alternative, intuitive,
and tangible interaction with works of art.
4.4.2. Depth-Based Editing
Task. Raster image editing relies on the composition of
multiple layers. Existing segmentation tools often fall short
when handling ambiguous requests: if a user clicks on a
face, do they mean the face, the character, or the entire fore-
ground? Our work can resolve this ambiguity by providing
a depth-based way to segment an input illustration.
Pipeline. Illustrator’s depth is easily leveraged to inform
segmentation: based on a user-defined threshold value t ad-
justable in realtime via a slider, an image can be split into
two layers, one (foreground) defined as illustrator’s depths
satisfying D[i, j] > t and one (background) for all others.
More generally, any binning strategy into N layers, found
through a quick analysis of the entire map D or derived
manually, provides a decomposition into layers by ranges
of illustrator’s depths, which can be directly uploaded in
raster graphic editors to allow for direct editing.
Results. While not designed to rival with modern segmenta-
tion models, illustrator’s depth provides an intuitive mech-
anism for selective element isolation within the context of
raster image editing, as demonstrated in Fig. 9. Paired with
(a) Input Image
(b) I. D.
(c) Foreground
(d) Editing
Figure 9. Depth-Aware Image Editing. From an input image (a),
illustrator’s depth (b) enables selective separation of key image
regions (c) for seamless compositing or depth-aware insertion (d).
Model
Binning
Inpainting
Figure 10. Illustrator’s depth with an inpainting model. Given
our illustrator’s depth (top), we can bin the values into several lay-
ers and inpaint each occluded regions with Stable Diffusion [40].
The resulting set of overlapping layers can be directly used for 3D
parallax effects as demonstrated in our supplemental video.
any inpainting model such as [40], our method can produce
N overlapping layers to allow for parallax effects for in-
stance, see Fig. 10. Additional examples can be found in
the accompanying Supplementary Material and video.
5. Conclusion and Future Work
We introduced Illustrator’s Depth, a novel concept that
augments image pixels with additional layer indices, en-
abling straightforward decomposition into an edit-ready
stack. Trained on a curated dataset of SVG files, our net-
work can infer illustrator’s depth across a wide range of in-
puts, ranging from simple icons to complex raster graphics.
We demonstrated that our method achieves SOTA perfor-
mance in image vectorization and facilitates a number of
downstream tasks beyond vector graphics, such as text-to-
vector generation, interactive editing, and relief generation.
Although our current model is trained specifically for
this task with a curated dataset of SVGs, the rapid advance-
ment of vision models toward one-shot and zero-shot gen-
eralization [49] suggests a near-future where illustrator’s
depth could be inferred directly from natural prompts, with-
out explicit training.
Beyond its current technical form,
we believe that the underlying concept of illustrator’s depth
will remain relevant across a variety of creative domains:
by shifting the notion of depth from a physical metric to a
layer-based ready-to-edit abstraction, our work introduces
a new paradigm for intelligent creative tools to better assist
the artistic process. Illustrator’s depth transforms image de-
composition from a mere technical challenge into a creative
and assistive foundation for the next generations of compu-
tational art and design systems.
26831


6. Acknowledgments
This work was supported by the French government through
the 3IA Cote d’Azur Investments in the project managed
by the National Research Agency (ANR-23-IACL-0001),
Ansys, and a Choose France Inria chair.
References
[1] Shariq Farooq Bhat, Ibraheem Alhashim, and Peter Wonka.
Adabins: Depth estimation using adaptive bins. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition, pages 4009–4018, 2021. 2
[2] Alexey Bochkovskiy, Ama¨el Delaunoy, Hugo Germain,
Marcel Santos, Yichao Zhou, Stephan Richter, and Vladlen
Koltun. Depth Pro: Sharp monocular metric depth in less
than a second. In The Thirteenth International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2025. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7
[3] Bowen Cheng, Maxwell D Collins, Yukun Zhu, Ting Liu,
Thomas S Huang, Hartwig Adam, and Liang-Chieh Chen.
Panoptic-deeplab:
A simple, strong, and fast baseline
for bottom-up panoptic segmentation.
In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 12475–12485, 2020. 2
[4] Bowen Cheng, Ishan Misra, Alexander G Schwing, Alexan-
der Kirillov, and Rohit Girdhar.
Masked-attention mask
transformer for universal image segmentation. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition, pages 1290–1299, 2022. 2
[5] Helisa Dhamo, Keisuke Tateno, Iro Laina, Nassir Navab, and
Federico Tombari. Peeking behind objects: Layered depth
prediction from a single image. Pattern Recognition Letters,
125:333–340, 2019. 2, 3
[6] David Eigen, Christian Puhrsch, and Rob Fergus. Depth Map
Prediction from a Single Image using a Multi-Scale Deep
Network.
In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems. Curran Associates, Inc., 2014. 2
[7] Jean-Dominique Favreau, Florent Lafarge, and Adrien
Bousseau. Photo2clipart: Image abstraction and vectoriza-
tion using layered linear gradients. ACM Transactions on
Graphics (TOG), 36(6):1–11, 2017. 3
[8] Huan Fu, Mingming Gong, Chaohui Wang, Kayhan Bat-
manghelich, and Dacheng Tao. Deep ordinal regression net-
work for monocular depth estimation.
In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 2002–2011, 2018. 2
[9] Google. Gemini 2.5 Flash Image, 2025. 7
[10] Kaiming He, Georgia Gkioxari, Piotr Doll´ar, and Ross Gir-
shick. Mask r-cnn. In Proceedings of the IEEE international
conference on computer vision, pages 2961–2969, 2017. 2
[11] Or Hirschorn, Amir Jevnisek, and Shai Avidan. Optimize
& reduce: a top-down approach for image vectorization. In
Proceedings of the Thirty-Eighth AAAI Conference on Arti-
ficial Intelligence, pages 2148–2156. AAAI Press, 2024. 2,
3
[12] Derek Hoiem, Alexei A Efros, and Martial Hebert. Recov-
ering surface layout from an image. International Journal of
Computer Vision, 75(1):151–172, 2007. Publisher: Springer.
2
[13] Lei Ke, Yu-Wing Tai, and Chi-Keung Tang. Deep occlusion-
aware instance segmentation with overlapping bilayers. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vi-
sion and pattern recognition, pages 4019–4028, 2021. 3
[14] Alexander Kirillov, Ross Girshick, Kaiming He, and Piotr
Doll´ar. Panoptic feature pyramid networks. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 6399–6408, 2019. 2
[15] Alexander Kirillov, Kaiming He, Ross Girshick, Carsten
Rother, and Piotr Doll´ar. Panoptic segmentation. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 9404–9413, 2019. 1
[16] Alexander Kirillov, Eric Mintun, Nikhila Ravi, Hanzi Mao,
Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson, Tete Xiao, Spencer White-
head, Alexander C Berg, Wan-Yen Lo, et al. Segment any-
thing. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international confer-
ence on computer vision, pages 4015–4026, 2023. 2
[17] Black Forest Labs, Stephen Batifol, Andreas Blattmann,
Frederic Boesel, Saksham Consul, Cyril Diagne, Tim Dock-
horn, Jack English, Zion English, Patrick Esser, et al. Flux.
1 kontext: Flow matching for in-context image generation
and editing in latent space. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.15742,
2025. 7
[18] Ho Law and Sung Ha Kang.
Image Vectorization with
Depth: convexified shape layers with depth ordering. SIAM
Journal on Imaging Sciences, 18(2):963–1001, 2025. 2, 3
[19] Hyunmin Lee and Jaesik Park.
Instance-wise occlusion
and depth orders in natural scenes.
In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 21210–21221, 2022. 3
[20] Yao-Chih Lee, Erika Lu, Sarah Rumbley, Michal Geyer, Jia-
Bin Huang, Tali Dekel, and Forrester Cole. Generative om-
nimatte: Learning to decompose video into layers. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 12522–12532, 2025. 2, 3
[21] Shanchuan Lin, Andrey Ryabtsev, Soumyadip Sengupta,
Brian L Curless, Steven M Seitz, and Ira Kemelmacher-
Shlizerman. Real-time high-resolution background matting.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 8762–8771, 2021. 3
[22] Raphael Gontijo Lopes, David Ha, Douglas Eck, and
Jonathon Shlens. A learned representation for scalable vec-
tor graphics. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision, pages 7930–7939, 2019. 3
[23] Xu Ma, Yuqian Zhou, Xingqian Xu, Bin Sun, Valerii Filev,
Nikita Orlov, Yun Fu, and Humphrey Shi. Towards layer-
wise image vectorization. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 16314–16323, 2022. 2, 3, 5, 6
[24] Ben Mildenhall, Pratul P Srinivasan, Rodrigo Ortiz-Cayon,
Nima Khademi Kalantari, Ravi Ramamoorthi, Ren Ng, and
Abhishek Kar. Local light field fusion: Practical view syn-
thesis with prescriptive sampling guidelines. ACM Transac-
tions on Graphics (ToG), 38(4):1–14, 2019. 2
[25] Rohit Mohan and Abhinav Valada. Amodal panoptic seg-
mentation.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
26832


on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 21023–
21032, 2022. 2
[26] Maxime Oquab, Timoth´ee Darcet, Th´eo Moutakanni, Huy
Vo, Marc Szafraniec, Vasil Khalidov, Pierre Fernandez,
Daniel Haziza, Francisco Massa, Alaaeldin El-Nouby, Mah-
moud Assran, Nicolas Ballas, Wojciech Galuba, Russell
Howes, Po-Yao Huang, Shang-Wen Li, Ishan Misra, Michael
Rabbat, Vasu Sharma, Gabriel Synnaeve, Hu Xu, Herv´e Je-
gou, Julien Mairal, Patrick Labatut, Armand Joulin, and Pi-
otr Bojanowski. DINOv2: Learning Robust Visual Features
without Supervision, 2024. arXiv:2304.07193 [cs]. 4, 7
[27] Sagi Polaczek, Yuval Alaluf, Elad Richardson, Yael Vinker,
and Daniel Cohen-Or.
Neuralsvg: An implicit represen-
tation for text-to-vector generation. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision,
pages 15458–15468, 2025. 7
[28] Yifan Pu, Yiming Zhao, Zhicong Tang, Ruihong Yin, Haox-
ing Ye, Yuhui Yuan, Dong Chen, Jianmin Bao, Sirui Zhang,
and Yanbin Wang. Art: Anonymous region transformer for
variable multi-layer transparent image generation. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 7952–7962, 2025. 2
[29] Sanford
Pun
and
Chris
Tsang.
VTracer.
https://github.com/visioncortex/vtracer, 2025.
2, 3, 5,
6
[30] Lu Qi, Li Jiang, Shu Liu, Xiaoyong Shen, and Jiaya Jia.
Amodal instance segmentation with kins dataset.
In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 3014–3023, 2019. 2
[31] Ren´e Ranftl,
Katrin Lasinger,
David Hafner,
Konrad
Schindler, and Vladlen Koltun. Towards robust monocular
depth estimation: Mixing datasets for zero-shot cross-dataset
transfer. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine
intelligence, 44(3):1623–1637, 2020. Publisher: IEEE. 2, 4
[32] Nikhila Ravi, Valentin Gabeur, Yuan-Ting Hu, Ronghang
Hu, Chaitanya Ryali, Tengyu Ma, Haitham Khedr, Roman
R¨adle, Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson, Eric Mintun, Junt-
ing Pan, Kalyan Vasudev Alwala, Nicolas Carion, Chao-
Yuan Wu, Ross Girshick, Piotr Dollar, and Christoph Feicht-
enhofer. SAM 2: Segment anything in images and videos. In
The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Rep-
resentations, 2025. 2
[33] Nikhila Ravi, Valentin Gabeur, Yuan-Ting Hu, Ronghang
Hu, Chaitanya Ryali, Tengyu Ma, Haitham Khedr, Roman
R¨adle, Chloe Rolland, and Laura Gustafson. SAM 2: Seg-
ment anything in images and videos. In The Thirteenth In-
ternational Conference on Learning Representations, 2025.
1, 2
[34] Pradyumna Reddy, Michael Gharbi, Michal Lukac, and
Niloy J. Mitra. Im2vec: Synthesizing vector graphics with-
out vector supervision.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 7342–7351, 2021. 3
[35] Andreas Reichinger, Stefan Maierhofer, and Werner Pur-
gathofer. High-quality tactile paintings. Journal on Com-
puting and Cultural Heritage, 4(2):1–13, 2011. 8
[36] Babak Rezaeirowshan, Coloma Ballester, and Gloria Haro.
Monocular Depth Ordering using Perceptual Occlusion
Cues:.
In Proceedings of the 11th Joint Conference on
Computer Vision, Imaging and Computer Graphics The-
ory and Applications, pages 431–441, Rome, Italy, 2016.
SCITEPRESS - Science and Technology Publications. 2
[37] Christian Richardt, Jorge Lopez-Moreno, Adrien Bousseau,
Maneesh Agrawala, and George Drettakis.
Vectorising
bitmaps into semi-transparent gradient layers. In Computer
Graphics Forum, pages 11–19. Wiley Online Library, 2014.
3
[38] Juan A. Rodriguez, Abhay Puri, Shubham Agarwal, Issam H.
Laradji, Pau Rodriguez, Sai Rajeswar, David Vazquez,
Christopher Pal, and Marco Pedersoli. StarVector: Gener-
ating scalable vector graphics code from images and text. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vi-
sion and Pattern Recognition, pages 16175–16186, 2025. 3,
5, 6, 7
[39] Juan A Rodriguez, Haotian Zhang, Abhay Puri, Aarash
Feizi, Rishav Pramanik, Pascal Wichmann, Arnab Mondal,
Mohammad Reza Samsami, Rabiul Awal, Perouz Taslakian,
et al.
Rendering-aware reinforcement learning for vec-
tor graphics generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.20793,
2025. 3, 7
[40] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz,
Patrick Esser, and Bjorn Ommer.
High-Resolution Image
Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models. In 2022 IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), pages 10674–10685, New Orleans, LA, USA, 2022.
IEEE. 8
[41] A. Saxena, Min Sun, and A.Y. Ng. Make3D: Learning 3D
Scene Structure from a Single Still Image. IEEE Transac-
tions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 31(5):
824–840, 2009. 2
[42] Peter Selinger. Potrace: a polygon-based tracing algorithm.
https://potrace.sourceforge.net, 2003. 5, 6
[43] Jonathan Shade, Steven Gortler, Li-wei He, and Richard
Szeliski.
Layered depth images.
In Proceedings of the
25th annual conference on Computer graphics and interac-
tive techniques, pages 231–242, 1998. 2
[44] Yiren Song, Danze Chen, and Mike Zheng Shou.
Layer-
tracer: Cognitive-aligned layered svg synthesis via diffusion
transformer. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision, pages 19731–19741, 2025.
2, 3, 7
[45] Jianchao Tan, Jyh-Ming Lien, and Yotam Gingold. Decom-
posing images into layers via rgb-space geometry.
ACM
Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 36(1):1–14, 2016. 3
[46] Mia Tang, Yael Vinker, Chuan Yan, Lvmin Zhang, and Ma-
neesh Agrawala. Instance Segmentation of Scene Sketches
Using Natural Image Priors. In Proceedings of the Special
Interest Group on Computer Graphics and Interactive Tech-
niques Conference Conference Papers, pages 1–10, Vancou-
ver BC Canada, 2025. ACM. 2
[47] Minh Q Tran, Khoa HV Vo, Kashu Yamazaki, Arthur Fer-
nandes, Michael T Kidd, and Ngan Le. Aisformer: Amodal
instance segmentation with transformer. In 33rd British Ma-
chine Vision Conference 2022, BMVC 2022, London, UK,
November 21-24, 2022. BMVA Press, 2022. 3
26833


[48] Stefan Van der Walt, Johannes L Sch¨onberger, Juan Nunez-
Iglesias, Franc¸ois Boulogne, Joshua D Warner, Neil Yager,
Emmanuelle Gouillart, and Tony Yu. scikit-image: image
processing in python. PeerJ, 2:e453, 2014. 6
[49] Thadd¨aus Wiedemer, Yuxuan Li, Paul Vicol, Shixiang Shane
Gu, Nick Matarese, Kevin Swersky, Been Kim, Priyank
Jaini, and Robert Geirhos. Video models are zero-shot learn-
ers and reasoners, 2025. arXiv:2509.20328 [cs]. 8
[50] Daniel Winter, Matan Cohen, Shlomi Fruchter, Yael Pritch,
Alex Rav-Acha, and Yedid Hoshen. Objectdrop: Bootstrap-
ping counterfactuals for photorealistic object removal and in-
sertion. In European Conference on Computer Vision, pages
112–129. Springer, 2024. 2
[51] Ronghuan Wu, Wanchao Su, and Jing Liao. LayerPeeler:
Autoregressive Peeling for Layer-wise Image Vectorization,
2025. arXiv:2505.23740 [cs]. 2, 3
[52] Yuting Xiao, Yanyu Xu, Ziming Zhong, Weixin Luo, Jiawei
Li, and Shenghua Gao. Amodal segmentation based on vis-
ible region segmentation and shape prior. In Proceedings of
the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pages 2995–
3003, 2021. 2
[53] Jinrui Yang, Qing Liu, Yijun Li, Soo Ye Kim, Daniil Pakho-
mov, Mengwei Ren, Jianming Zhang, Zhe Lin, Cihang Xie,
and Yuyin Zhou. Generative image layer decomposition with
visual effects. In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition Conference, pages 7643–7653, 2025. 2,
3
[54] Lihe Yang, Bingyi Kang, Zilong Huang, Zhen Zhao, Xiao-
gang Xu, Jiashi Feng, and Hengshuang Zhao. Depth Any-
thing V2. Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems, 37:21875–21911, 2024. 1, 2, 4, 5
[55] Yiying Yang, Wei Cheng, Sijin Chen, Xianfang Zeng, Ji-
axu Zhang, Liao Wang, Gang Yu, Xingjun Ma, and Yu-Gang
Jiang. OmniSVG: A Unified Scalable Vector Graphics Gen-
eration Model, 2025. arXiv:2504.06263 [cs]. 3, 5, 6, 7
[56] Lvmin Zhang and Maneesh Agrawala. Transparent Image
Layer Diffusion using Latent Transparency.
ACM Trans.
Graph., 43(4):100:1–100:15, 2024. 2
[57] Peiying Zhang, Nanxuan Zhao, and Jing Liao.
Text-to-
Vector Generation with Neural Path Representation. ACM
Trans. Graph., 43(4):36:1–36:13, 2024. 7
[58] Richard Zhang, Phillip Isola, Alexei A Efros, Eli Shecht-
man, and Oliver Wang. The unreasonable effectiveness of
deep features as a perceptual metric. In Proceedings of the
IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recogni-
tion, pages 586–595, 2018. 6
[59] Yu-Wei
Zhang,
Jing
Wu,
Zhongping
Ji,
Mingqiang
Wei,
and
Caiming
Zhang.
Computer-assisted
Re-
lief
Modelling:
A
Comprehensive
Survey.
Com-
puter Graphics Forum, 38(2):521–534, 2019.
eprint:
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1111/cgf.13655.
7
[60] Ziyu Zhang, Alexander G Schwing, Sanja Fidler, and Raquel
Urtasun. Monocular object instance segmentation and depth
ordering with cnns. In Proceedings of the IEEE International
Conference on Computer Vision, pages 2614–2622, 2015. 2,
6
[61] Kaibo Zhao, Liang Bao, Yufei Li, Xu Su, Ke Zhang, and Xi-
aotian Qiao. Less is more: Efficient image vectorization with
adaptive parameterization. In Proceedings of the Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference, pages 18166–
18175, 2025. 2, 5, 6
[62] Hengyu Zhou, Hui Zhang, and Bin Wang. Segmentation-
guided layer-wise image vectorization with gradient fills. In
European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 165–180.
Springer, 2024. 2, 3
[63] Tinghui Zhou, Richard Tucker, John Flynn, Graham Fyffe,
and Noah Snavely.
Stereo magnification: learning view
synthesis using multiplane images. ACM Transactions on
Graphics (TOG), 37(4):1–12, 2018. 2
[64] Zhou Wang, A.C. Bovik, H.R. Sheikh, and E.P. Simoncelli.
Image quality assessment: from error visibility to structural
similarity. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 13(4):
600–612, 2004. 6
[65] Yan Zhu, Yuandong Tian, Dimitris Metaxas, and Piotr
Doll´ar. Semantic amodal segmentation. In Proceedings of
the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recog-
nition, pages 1464–1472, 2017. 2
26834
