Title: H-Adapter: Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer via Attention-Derived, Source-Aligned Hair Masks

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.25578v1

Published Time: Thu, 25 Jun 2026 00:49:10 GMT

Number of Pages: 44

Markdown Content:
# H-Adapter: Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer via Attention-Derived, Source-Aligned Hair Masks 

Seulgi Jeong *, Yunseong Cho , and Sanghun Park B

SNOW Corp., Seongnam, Republic of Korea 

wjdtmfrl3682@gmail.com, {yunseong.cho,sanghun.park}@snowcorp.com 

Abstract. Hairstyle transfer has practical applications such as virtual try-on, yet remains challenging when the source and reference exhibit large head-pose discrepancies. We propose H-Adapter, which improves pose robustness by training with a region-specific loss that disentangles hair and non-hair objectives and thereby induces spatially disentangled cross-attention, from which a source-aligned hair edit mask is derived to guide diffusion-based inpainting. Experiments on pose-agnostic and pose-different subsets demonstrate strong quantitative results, includ-ing the best FID, FID CLIP , and CLIP-I under pose differences, while maintaining competitive non-hair preservation and improving qualita-tive fidelity to fine-grained reference hairstyle details. Beyond source-conditioned transfer, H-Adapter supports practical extensions including text-to-image generation, auxiliary prompt-based hair color control, and compatibility with an identity-preserving IP-Adapter variant. We also introduce a VLM-as-a-judge protocol and observe consistent gains in hairstyle faithfulness, non-hair preservation, and artifact quality. 

Keywords: Hairstyle transfer · Diffusion inpainting · Cross-attention 

## 1 Introduction 

Recent progress in image synthesis and editing has led to higher-fidelity genera-tion and more precise local image manipulations. Hairstyle transfer has emerged as an important image editing task with practical applications such as virtual hairstyle try-on. Given a source and a reference image, the goal is to transfer the reference hair color and shape while preserving non-hair content ( e.g ., identity, background, and clothing). This task imposes region-dependent objectives: the model must reflect reference hairstyle features in hair regions while preserving the source content in non-hair regions. This coupling of conflicting objectives makes it difficult to localize edits without degrading non-hair content. A key challenge arises from the non-rigid, pose-dependent nature of hair: changes in head pose can substantially shift its spatial placement and silhou-ette, so successful transfer requires determining where hair should appear on the  

> *

Work done during an internship at SNOW Corp.  

> B

Corresponding author.  

> arXiv:2606.25578v1 [cs.CV] 24 Jun 2026 2S. Jeong et al.

source head geometry and in what approximate shape, especially under large source–reference pose discrepancies. GAN-based approaches [4, 15, 22, 30, 37, 40, 42, 50] have driven much of the recent progress in hairstyle transfer. These methods typically rely on aligned face datasets, which can be effective in controlled settings but limit robustness in unconstrained imagery. To improve generalization under unconstrained con-ditions, diffusion-based approaches [5, 45, 47] have also been explored. However, under pose mismatch, two failure modes remain common: (1) inaccurate hair-region localization, leading to misplaced or over-extended edits; and (2) limited reproduction of fine-grained reference structure and texture, even when global placement is reasonable. Existing methods often fail to localize the editable hair region under large pose mismatch. We therefore seek source-aligned spatial guidance that specifies where hair should be synthesized on the source head geometry, and use it to constrain diffusion-based inpainting [29] to the hair region. We propose H-Adapter, a hair-aware adapter trained with a novel region-specific loss to spatially disentangle hair and non-hair objectives, built upon IP-Adapter [43]. Concretely, the loss encourages the model to learn reference hairstyle appearance only within hair regions, while suppressing reference condi-tioning in non-hair regions by regularizing them toward the pretrained diffusion model’s predictions. This training yields cross-attention maps with increased spatial separation between hair and non-hair content, from which we derive a coarse, source-aligned hair mask that guides diffusion-based inpainting. Beyond improving localization under pose mismatch, the adapter-based de-sign also enables flexible inference-time use: H-Adapter supports auxiliary prompt-based hair-color control in hairstyle transfer, general prompt-driven generation, and compatibility with identity-preserving IP-Adapter variants. Our contribu-tions are summarized as follows: 

– We introduce a region-specific loss that disentangles hair and non-hair ob-jectives for faithful reference hairstyle transfer. 

– We derive a source-aligned coarse attention mask from H-Adapter cross-attention to guide diffusion inpainting with pose and shape consistency. 

– We demonstrate plug-and-play inference, including use in standard text-to-image generation, optional text-guided hair-color control, and compatibility with other IP-Adapter variants. We achieve strong results under pose mismatch across quantitative, qualita-tive, VLM-as-a-judge, and human preference evaluations. 

## 2 Related Work 

2.1 Hairstyle Transfer 

Prior work on hairstyle transfer has largely focused on structured control sig-nals to improve editability and fidelity. Several methods explicitly disentangle H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 3

hair attributes to enable more controllable editing [22,30,37,42,50]. Text-driven control is further explored in HairCLIP [40]. More recent approaches expand the conditioning space for practical use, rang-ing from diffusion-based text conditioning for multi-color hair editing [45] to HairCLIPv2, which supports multi-modal, user-interactive controls via proxy feature blending [42]; its journal extension further generalizes this proxy-based editing paradigm, including 3D-aware hair editing [41]. However, large head-pose differences between the source and reference im-ages remain challenging. To address this, prior works propose various alignment and pose-conditioning strategies. Barbershop [50] performs GAN-based image compositing with segmentation masks. Style-Your-Hair [15] aligns hairstyles by optimizing a target-hair latent code toward the source pose. HairFiT [4] lever-ages multi-view datasets and flow-based alignment to better handle viewpoint changes, while HairNet [51] further addresses hairstyle transfer with pose changes by removing the source hair and transferring a pose-aligned reference hairstyle. HairFastGAN [22], a later GAN-based method designed to mitigate head-pose mismatch, introduces a Rotate Encoder that transforms the face latent to en-able pose-aware transfer. Stable-Hair [47] exploits video data by transferring hairstyles across frames of the same identity to increase pose robustness. Hair-Fusion [5] injects pose cues ( e.g ., DensePose [9]) into attention to encourage pose-aligned hair generation. Despite these efforts, handling large pose gaps between the source and ref-erence images remains challenging. In contrast to prior methods that rely on explicit alignment, pose cues, or latent transformations, our method focuses on deriving a source-aligned edit region from region-specific-loss-induced cross-attention and uses it to guide diffusion inpainting for pose-consistent hairstyle transfer. 

2.2 Image Editing Controlling Attention for Editing Recent advances in text-to-image dif-fusion models [21, 26, 28, 29, 31] have improved generation fidelity and enabled more precise local control in image editing. In particular, several works manip-ulate attention to localize edits and preserve structure. Prompt-to-Prompt [12] performs text-driven editing by manipulating cross-attention maps to localize changes across denoising steps, without relying on explicit masks. Plug-and-Play methods [38] inject self-attention from a guidance image into the generation pro-cess to preserve structure in image-to-image translation. 

Mask Generation from Attention Several works derive spatial masks from attention maps to localize edits. MasaCtrl [2] separates foreground and back-ground using cross-attention and constrains each region to attend only to the corresponding source region. DiffEdit [7] derives edit masks from differences in diffusion noise predictions, and InstDiffEdit [52] selects representative tokens and aggregates token relevance to generate masks in real time. 4 S. Jeong et al. training image –mask pairs                    

> SD base
> H-Adapter
> “a photo of a person”
> (a) Training pipeline of H-Adapter. The adapter is optimized with aregion-specific objective using training image-mask pairs to encourage hair-region-focused conditioning. 𝑥 !
> Hair
> Remover
> "𝑥 !
> 𝑥 "
> 𝑀 attn
> 𝑀 attn 𝑀 seg
> 𝑦 !"#$
> 𝑦 %&'()$
> 𝑦 *"+
> 𝑀 seg 𝑀 !
> SD Inpainting
> H-Adapter
> Hair Transfer
> warm -up (1 steps)
> 1 stage (20 steps)
> 2 stage (50 steps)
> Stage -shared input flow
> Segmentation
> (b) Two-stage inference pipeline. HairRemover [1] converts the source image xsinto a hair-removed base image ˜xs.Green arrows denote coarse mask extraction ( Mattn ), blue arrows denote intermediate generation ( ymid ) and segmen-tation ( Mseg ), and purple arrows denote final inpainting to produce yfine .

Fig. 1: Overview of our method. We train an H-Adapter with a region-specific objective and apply a source-aligned coarse attention mask to localize diffusion inpainting for reference-guided hairstyle transfer. 

Our approach also leverages attention-derived masks, but targets hair trans-fer under pose mismatch. Unlike prior work on general edit localization, we derive a source-aligned hair mask from cross-attention maps that separate hair and non-hair content. 

## 3 Method 

3.1 Overview 

An overview of our framework is shown in Fig. 1. Given a source image xs and a reference image xr , our goal is to transfer the reference hairstyle to the source while preserving non-hair regions. Our method consists of three parts: (i) training IP-Adapter as H-Adapter with a region-specific objective that focuses on the hair region (Sec. 3.2), (ii) an inference pipeline that leverages a source-aligned coarse attention mask to restrict diffusion inpainting [29] to the target hair region (Sec. 3.3), and (iii) extensions enabled by the plug-and-play compatibility of H-Adapter with text prompts and other adapters (Sec. 3.4). 

3.2 H-Adapter with Region-Specific Objective 

We adopt a pretrained IP-Adapter [43] to inject reference hairstyle features through cross-attention during diffusion denoising. However, directly applying a standard IP-Adapter to hair transfer is non-trivial, as it is trained to inject conditioning features globally and thus tends to affect non-hair regions as well. As shown in Fig. 5(g) (rows 2–3), directly applying IP-Adapter often fails to trans-fer hairstyles reliably, leading to incomplete or incorrect hair edits. To confine H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 5

the conditioning effect to hair, we train the adapter with a novel region-specific objective. During training, we assume that a binary hair mask Mi ∈ { 0, 1} is available for each target image xi. We train with a mixture of self-supervised and video-based supervision. For a subset of samples, we adopt a self-supervised setup where the same image is used as both the reference xj and the target xi (i.e ., 

xj = xi). For the remaining samples, we construct reference–target pairs from videos such that xj and xi depict the same identity but correspond to different frames ( i.e ., xj̸ = xi). We train on the base text-to-image backbone and perform inference with an inpainting variant. For text conditioning, we use a fixed generic prompt “a photo of a person” during training. 

Region-Specific Training Objective To localize reference hairstyle learning to the hair region while suppressing any influence on non-hair content, we opti-mize a region-specific objective defined on a binary hair mask M , as illustrated in Fig. 1a. Specifically, we apply the standard diffusion denoising loss only within the hair region: 

Lhair = Ez,ϵ ∼N (0 ,I ),t 

h

∥(ϵ − ϵθH (zt, t, c t, c i)) · M ∥22

i

, (1) where zt is the noisy latent at timestep t, ϵ ∼ N (0 , I ) is Gaussian noise, ct and 

ci denote the text and reference-image conditions, and ϵθH is the noise predictor augmented with the H-Adapter. To prevent the H-Adapter from affecting non-hair regions, we further regular-ize the model to match the pretrained diffusion model’s noise prediction outside the hair mask: 

Lnon -hair = Ez,ϵ ∼N (0 ,I ),t 

h

∥(ϵθH (zt, t, c t, c i) − ϵθ0 (zt, t, c t)) · (1 − M )∥22

i

, (2) where ϵθ0 is the baseline noise predictor without the H-Adapter. The final training objective is 

L = Lhair + λnon -hair Lnon -hair , (3) where λnon -hair controls the strength of the non-hair consistency term and is set to 0.1 in all experiments. This objective encourages the H-Adapter to in-ject reference hairstyle information only within hair regions, while suppressing its influence on non-hair regions. As a result, the reference branch selectively attends to hairstyle features while ignoring non-hair content, enabling training with either identical reference–target images or same-identity pairs from videos. 

3.3 Inference-Time Hair Transfer 

We obtain the hair-removed base image ˜xs from the source image xs by prompt-ing a pretrained instruction-based image editing model [1]. We then perform a two-stage coarse-to-fine inpainting process, as shown in Fig. 1b, to obtain the final hairstyle transfer result. 6 S. Jeong et al. H-Adapter       

> SD Inpainting
> Hair Transfer w/ Color Control
> “a photo of person
> with [color] hair ”
> 𝑥 𝑠
> 𝑥 𝑟
> (a) Auxiliary prompt-based control H-Adapter
> “[style prompt]”
> Text -to -Image Hair Transfer
> 𝑥 !
> SD base
> Reference conditioning
> Standard diffusion
> (b) Reference-guided text-to-image generation H-Adapter
> SD base
> “[style prompt]”
> ID -Preserving Hair Transfer
> Face ID Adapter
> 𝑥 𝑖𝑑
> 𝑥 𝑟
> (c) Identity-preserving hair transfer

Fig. 2: Flexible extensions of H-Adapter. H-Adapter supports auxiliary prompt con-trol ( λ; Eq. (4)), tandard text-to-image generation, and composition with identity-preserving adapters. 

Source-Aligned Coarse Attention Mask A key observation is that the pro-posed region-specific objective yields cross-attention maps that exhibit separa-tion between hair and non-hair regions. Figure 5(b) visualizes the cross-attention maps for all K tokens (t0, . . . , t K−1). Notably, a single token ts consistently attends to non-hair regions and serves as a separator (Fig. 5(b-1)), while the remaining tokens primarily focus on the hair region. Leveraging this property, we sum the cross-attention maps CA (tk) over all tokens except the separator token ts, as shown in Fig. 5(b-2), and binarize the aggregated map to obtain an attention-derived coarse inpainting mask Mattn = Binarize 

P  

> k̸=s

CA (tk)



.In our implementation, K = 16 , and we empirically observe that t8 serves as the separator token ( i.e ., ts = t8). Additional analyses of separator-token selec-tion and stability are provided in Appendix G of the Supplementary Material. The resulting attention-derived mask is used in two ways. First, it serves as the inpainting mask Mattn in the two-stage inference pipeline. Second, an internal per-timestep mask Mt, recomputed at each timestep, gates reference injection in cross-attention. 

Per-timestep Reference Gating During inference, we gate reference injec-tion in cross-attention using a timestep-dependent spatial mask Mt derived from attention. Following an existing masked reference-injection cross-attention im-plementation, 1 we compute 

Z = softmax 

 QK ⊤

√d



V + λ



Mt ⊙ softmax QK ′⊤ 

√d

!

V ′

, (4) where Q is the query projected from the current spatial features, (K, V ) are the key and value projected from the textual context used in standard cross-attention, and (K′, V ′) are those from the H-Adapter conditioning features. The mask Mt, recomputed from cross-attention at each timestep t as described above, gates the reference term, and ⊙ denotes element-wise multiplication.  

> 1

https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 7

Two-Stage Inpainting with a Warm-Up Step A two-stage inpainting pipeline with a warm-up step is employed. Figure 1b illustrates the overall procedure. Since a source-aligned coarse mask is not available at the start of inference, we initialize inpainting with an all-one mask and run a single warm-up denoising step to extract cross-attention maps, from which the attention-based mask Mattn 

is derived. Using Mattn , denoising is run for a small number of steps ( e.g ., ∼20) to obtain an intermediate image ymid . A pretrained segmentation model [44] then predicts a pixel-level hair mask Mseg from the intermediate image ymid . Denois-ing is then restarted from the initial noise latent zT with Mseg as the inpainting mask, yielding the final output yfine with a pixel-level editable region. Overall, this coarse-to-fine strategy progressively estimates the hair mask at increasing spatial precision, enabling robust source-pose-aligned hairstyle transfer. 

3.4 Extensions for Reference-Guided Hairstyle Transfer 

As shown in Fig. 2, H-Adapter supports flexible compositions with existing dif-fusion conditioning mechanisms. We describe three practical usages built on the same interface. 

Reference-Guided Text-to-Image Generation. H-Adapter supports reference-guided text-to-image generation by injecting reference hairstyle features via cross-attention, without requiring a source-image condition. 

Auxiliary Prompt-Based Hair Color Control. In the source-conditioned hairstyle transfer setting, we optionally incorporate an auxiliary text prompt (e.g ., hair color) as an additional condition. A relative weighting factor λ (Eq. (4)) controls the trade-off between auxiliary prompt controllability and reference faithfulness. 

Compatibility with Identity-Preserving Adapters. H-Adapter is compos-able with identity-preserving adapters by jointly conditioning the diffusion model on (i) a source identity embedding and (ii) the reference hairstyle embedding. This enables identity-consistent hairstyle transfer while retaining prompt-driven content generation. 

## 4 Experiments 

4.1 Experimental setup 

H-Adapter is fine-tuned from IP-Adapter-Plus [43] on Stable Diffusion v1.5 [29] using our region-specific loss, with training data from the FFHQ [14] and CelebV-HQ [49]. Training samples are formed as triplets (xi, x j , M i), where xi is the target image, xj is the IP-Adapter condition image, and Mi is the hair mask from xi; FFHQ uses self-pairs ( xj = xi), while CelebV-HQ uses two frames of the same identity ( xi̸ = xj ). At inference time, H-Adapter is applied with 8 S. Jeong et al. Source  Reference  ours  Hair      

> Fusion Stable Hair HairFast
> GAN
> HairCLIP
> v2 SYH Barber
> shop FLUX.2
> Nano
> Banana
> Pro
> Qwen
> Image

Fig. 3: Qualitative comparisons under head-pose differences. The first two columns show the source and reference images; the remaining columns show outputs from each method. These examples span source–reference yaw gaps from 18 .65 ◦ to 53 .21 ◦.

the Stable Diffusion v1.5 inpainting model, where the hair-removed base images are synthesized using a FLUX.2 [1]. Full implementation details are provided in Appendix B of the Supplementary Material. 

4.2 Evaluation Protocol Baselines Comparisons are conducted against state-of-the-art hair transfer methods, including HairCLIPv2 [42], Style-Your-Hair (SYH) [15], HairFastGAN [22], Stable-Hair [47], and HairFusion [5]. For each baseline, images are generated by following the official code release. We additionally report results obtained by re-placing our H-Adapter with the standard IP-Adapter [43], where the IP-Adapter is trained on the same dataset as ours for a fair comparison. 

Metrics To evaluate overall visual realism, we compute FID between the source images and the generated images. FID CLIP [18] is computed similarly to FID, but uses a CLIP image encoder [27] instead of Inception V3 [36]. To evaluate non-hair preservation, reconstruction quality is measured on the intersection of the H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 9   

> Fig. 4: Separator-token analysis over the 16 IP-Adapter tokens. For each token, we retain the larger IoU between the mask obtained by excluding that token from attention aggregation and the corresponding token-only mask. The highest mean IoU is achieved by t8over 3,000 samples, supporting its use as the separator token in our pipeline.

non-hair regions of the source and generated images using PSNR and SSIM [39]. Hair transfer faithfulness is measured by the CLIP-I [18] similarity between the reference image and the generated image. 

Evaluation subsets CelebA-HQ [13] contains 30,000 unpaired images. We build two pair-disjoint evaluation subsets of 3,000 source–reference pairs by randomly pairing distinct images from the dataset, excluding hat images. The pose-agnostic subset is sampled without conditioning on head pose, while the pose-different subset includes only pairs with an absolute yaw difference > 15 ◦

to test robustness to pose variation. For HairFusion [5], facial landmark extrac-tion fails for some samples; to ensure fair comparison, we remove the affected pairs (62 pose-agnostic, 101 pose-different) for all methods and report results on the remaining pairs. 

4.3 Qualitative Evaluation on Pose-Different Pairs 

Figure 3 shows qualitative results where the source and reference images have different head poses. Our method transfers the reference hairstyle while aligning its shape and spatial placement to the source head geometry and pose, yielding coherent hair boundaries and natural integration with the source face. In con-trast, existing methods often fail to generate hair at an appropriate location or with a plausible shape aligned to the source head geometry, particularly with 10 S. Jeong et al. 𝑥 ! "𝑥 ! 𝑥 "                 

> 𝑡 #
> ours
> IP -
> Adapter
> 𝑡 $𝑡 %𝑡 &𝑡 '𝑡 (𝑡 )𝑡 *𝑡 +𝑡 ,𝑡 $$ 𝑡 $# 𝑡 $% 𝑡 $& 𝑡 $' 𝑡 $(
> (b) Attention map
> (a) Conditions
> 1.0
> 0.5
> 0.0
> 0.75
> 0.25
> (c) Attention
> overlay
> (g) Generated
> image
> (d) Stage 1
> 𝑀 !""# overlay
> (e) Intermediate
> image
> (f) Stage 2
> 𝑀 $%& overlay
> Ours ( 𝑡 ')
> IP -Adapter ( 𝑡 ()
> IP -Adapter ( 𝑡 ')
> (b -2)
> All except 𝑡 $
> (b -1)
> Seperator
> token 𝑡 $

Fig. 5: Stage-wise visualization of editing guidance in the proposed inference pipeline, comparing IP-Adapter and H-Adapter (ours). (a) Conditioning inputs: source xs,hair-removed base ˜xs, and reference xr . (b) Token-wise cross-attention for 16 tokens 

t0, . . . , t 15 : (b-1) the attention map of the separator token ts, with its token index shown in parentheses; and (b-2) the aggregated attention map obtained by summing all tokens except ts. (c) Overlay of (b-2) on ˜xs. (d) Stage-1 inpainting mask Mattn 

overlaid on ˜xs. (e) Stage-1 intermediate output. (f) Stage-2 inpainting mask Mseg over-laid on ˜xs. (g) Stage-2 final output. The figure shows that region-specific loss yields more source-aligned guidance, reducing mask misalignment and improving pose- and shape-consistent hairstyle transfer. 

large differences in head shape or pose. We further provide qualitative com-parisons with FLUX.2 [1], Nano Banana Pro [8], Qwen-Image-2.0-Pro [48], and Barbershop [50] in Fig. 3. Although recent general-purpose editors can produce plausible edits, they still struggle with reference-guided hairstyle transfer, which requires both reference faithfulness and source-pose alignment. H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 11 Source Reference ours HairFusion Stable Hair HairFastGAN HairCLIPv2 SYH IP -Adapter ( 𝑡 !)

Fig. 6: Qualitative analysis of reference-feature faithfulness. The first two columns show the source and reference conditions, while the remaining columns compare method outputs. 

4.4 Analysis of Separator Token Selection 

We further validate the choice of the separator token used for attention-based mask extraction. Under a controlled self-pair setting with ground-truth hair masks, we evaluate each of the 16 H-Adapter conditioning tokens as a candidate separator. For each candidate token, we compare both the mask obtained by excluding that token from attention aggregation and the token-only mask, and report the better IoU with the ground-truth hair mask. As shown in Fig. 4, t8

achieves the highest mean IoU max over 3,000 samples, supporting its use as the separator token in our pipeline. We also examine the token-level behavior through the normalized value-vector norms. The t8 token already has a relatively small norm in the pretrained IP-Adapter, and the proposed region-specific objective further reduces its rela-tive norm in H-Adapter. This suggests that the region-specific objective amplifies a pre-existing token-level bias into a more stable non-hair separator, rather than producing an arbitrary token assignment. Additional analyses are provided in Appendix G of the Supplementary Material. 

4.5 Stage-Wise Analysis of Source-Aligned Mask Generation 

We analyze the contribution of the region-specific loss to source-aligned mask generation in our two-stage inference pipeline. To isolate its effect, we compare against an IP-Adapter baseline trained under the same setting but without the region-specific loss. Because IP-Adapter does not yield a reliable separator token at t8, we additionally report results using a t2-derived mask that consistently emphasizes facial regions. Figure 5 summarizes the stage-wise behavior. 12 S. Jeong et al.                                                      

> Table 1: Quantitative comparison on the pose-different subset. The best and second-best results are highlighted in bold and underlined, respectively. Method FID ↓FID CLIP ↓SSIM ↑PSNR ↑CLIP-I ↑
> Ours 12.47 3.98 0.831 23.06 0.659
> IP-Adapter ( t8) 15.27 8.83 0.803 21.56 0.639 IP-Adapter ( t2) 12.53 4.26 0.825 22.70 0.651 FLUX.2 12.66 5.18 0.904 25.35 0.643 HairFusion 28.03 8.80 0.756 17.26 0.626 Stable-Hair 25.79 8.70 0.798 22.39 0.640 HairFastGAN 12.78 4.53 0.817 24.40 0.649 HairCLIPv2 13.44 7.91 0.824 23.63 0.623 Style-Your-Hair 15.95 8.54 0.816 22.80 0.649

Our attention-derived mask localization provides only coarse localization and is therefore insufficient for final pixel-level editing. The region-specific loss yields source aligned guidance in Stage 1, producing an intermediate image from which Stage 2 extracts an accurate pixel-level hair mask for localized inpainting. In contrast, the IP-Adapter baseline produces less reliable attention localization, leading to overly broad edits and boundary drift that ultimately degrade pose and shape consistency. Overall, the results support the two-stage design for ob-taining a pixel-level target mask and suggest that the region-specific loss enables source-aligned guidance, leading to pose- and shape-consistent hair placement. Detailed per-stage analyses are provided in Appendix A of the Supplementary Material. 

4.6 Qualitative Analysis of Reference Feature Faithfulness 

We compare reference hairstyle transfer fidelity across our method, existing methods, and an IP-Adapter baseline obtained by replacing our H-Adapter us-ing the t2-based mask. As shown in Fig. 6, our method faithfully transfers both fine-grained details and global hairstyle structure from the reference while re-maining consistent with the source head geometry. In the first two rows, it cap-tures the color accents of the reference hairstyle. The third row demonstrates improved transfer of fine-grained parting details. The fourth row reproduces a thin highlight strand. The last row highlights stable faithfulness under imperfect references: even when the reference hair region is blurred, our method preserves the intended hairstyle attributes. Overall, these examples demonstrate faithful transfer of reference hairstyle attributes, preserving both fine-grained details and global structure. 

4.7 Quantitative Evaluation 

Table 1 reports quantitative results on the pose-different subset, while results on the pose-agnostic subset are provided in Appendix F of the Supplementary Mate-rial. On the pose-different subset, our method achieves the best FID, FID CLIP ,H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 13 

Table 2: VLM-as-a-judge scores (GPT-4o) with 95% bootstrap percentile CIs ( nboot =1,000 over per-triplet template-mean scores). Method HFS ↑ NPS ↑ AQS ↑

Ours 3.11 [2.99, 3.23] 4.23 [4.15, 4.32] 3.73 [3.63, 3.83] 

HairFusion 2.55 [2.44, 2.65] 3.55 [3.46, 3.64] 3.09 [2.99, 3.18] 

Stable-Hair 2.90 [2.77, 3.02] 3.42 [3.33, 3.51] 2.75 [2.67, 2.84] 

HairFastGAN 2.83 [2.72, 2.95] 3.91 [3.82, 4.00] 3.29 [3.19, 3.38] 

HairCLIPv2 2.10 [1.97, 2.23] 4.05 [3.95, 4.13] 3.57 [3.46, 3.67] 

Style-Your-Hair 2.87 [2.74, 3.02] 3.98 [3.90, 4.07] 3.61 [3.52, 3.70] 

and CLIP-I scores among all compared methods, including FLUX.2 and the IP-Adapter baselines. These results indicate improved visual fidelity and more faithful transfer of reference hairstyle attributes under pose mismatch. FLUX.2 obtains the highest SSIM and PSNR, reflecting strong source preservation, but performs worse than ours on FID, FID CLIP , and CLIP-I. Meanwhile, our method attains the second-best SSIM with competitive PSNR, suggesting that it better balances reference-faithful hairstyle transfer and non-hair preservation. 

4.8 VLM-as-a-Judge Evaluation 

While the above metrics capture quantify overall quality and pixel-level non-hair consistency, they cannot isolate hair-specific transfer quality, semantic non-hair preservation, or localized artifacts. We therefore adopt a VLM-as-a-judge framework [46] to score each result along three axes: (i) Hair Fidelity Score (HFS )—how faithfully the reference hairstyle is reproduced; (ii) Non-hair Preser-vation Score ( NPS )—how well identity, background, and other non-hair regions are preserved; and (iii) Artifact Quality Score ( AQS )—the absence of arti-facts such as blending seams, color bleeding, or unnatural boundaries. 

Evaluation Protocol. For each model, we evaluate 200 triplets (source, refer-ence, generated output). The source–reference pairs are randomly sampled from CelebA-HQ and shared across all models. We adopt a pointwise scoring proto-col [3] in which each VLM judge assigns a 1–5 Likert score to each axis via sepa-rate prompts to avoid inter-axis interference [16]. To mitigate prompt-sensitivity bias [33], we construct three lexically distinct prompt variants per axis and aver-age across templates in each axis. Each prompt incorporates rubric anchors [20] and chain-of-thought rationale elicitation [16]. To reduce single-judge bias, the pipeline is executed with three VLM judges—GPT-4o [23], GPT-5.2 [24,25], and Gemini-2.5-Flash [6]—with prompt templates, consistency and pairwise valida-tion reported in Appendix D of the Supplementary Material. 

Evaluation Results. We present results with GPT-4o as the representative judge, as it showed the highest consistency (Krippendorff’s α ≥ 0.90 on all axes; mean per-triplet run-to-run σ ≤ 0.07 ). 14 S. Jeong et al. "a photo of a person           

> with blue hair"
> "a photo of a person
> with red hair"
> "a photo of a person
> with pink hair"
> 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> 𝑥 !
> 𝑥 "
> Text
> 𝜆

Fig. 7: Auxiliary hair-color control with H-Adapter. Inputs and the random seed are fixed. Rows vary hair-color prompts and columns vary λ (0.2–1.0). Smaller λ improves prompt responsiveness, while larger λ strengthens reference faithfulness. 

As shown in Tab. 2, our method achieves the highest mean on all three axes. While the AQS gap over Style-Your-Hair falls within overlapping confidence in-tervals, Style-Your-Hair ranks third on HFS. Other baselines show similar trade-offs ( e.g ., HairCLIPv2 is second on NPS but last on HFS), whereas ours is the only method that maintains top-tier performance across all criteria without such compromises. Note that HFS scores are generally low across all methods due to the strict rubric requiring simultaneous match in color, texture, length, silhou-ette, and parting; ours is the only method exceeding 3.0. Pairwise validation and per-judge breakdowns are provided in Appendix D of the Supplementary Material. 

4.9 Human Preference Study 

To complement automatic and VLM-based evaluations, we conducted a pairwise human preference study. Participants selected the preferred result between two anonymized outputs given the same source and reference images. From 53 valid respondents, we collected 3,193 valid pairwise votes; our method was preferred in 72.7% of all comparisons, with consistent preference over each baseline. Further details are provided in Appendix E of the Supplementary Material. 

4.10 Flexible Usage of H-Adapter 

Beyond the default hairstyle transfer setting, H-Adapter also supports reference-guided text-to-image generation, auxiliary prompt-based hair-color control, and composition with IP-Adapter FaceID Plus for identity-preserving generation. As shown in Figs. 7 and 8, these usages demonstrate that the learned hair-conditioning branch can be flexibly combined with text prompts and identity H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 15 “high quality, high detail, photo     

> of a woman fighting a dragon ,
> hilltop, dynamic pose, dramatic
> lighting”
> Source Reference
> Text
> “high quality, high detail,
> magical girl woman, cute outfit,
> transformation vibe, sparkles,
> anime style”
> “high quality, high detail, photo
> of a woman in a superhero
> costume, city background,
> cinematic lighting”

Fig. 8: Qualitative results of H-Adapter combined with IP-Adapter FaceID Plus [43]. The source image conditions FaceID Plus for identity preservation. Rows vary text prompts, and columns vary reference images for H-Adapter, demonstrating reference-guided hair transfer across diverse contexts while preserving identity. 

conditions without retraining. Additional qualitative results, including in-the-wild examples, stylized inputs, reference-guided text-to-image generation, and identity-preserving adapter analysis, are provided in Appendix C of the Supple-mentary Material. 

## 5 Conclusion 

We presented H-Adapter, a pose-robust hairstyle transfer framework that trains an IP-Adapter with a region-specific objective to disentangle hair and non-hair regions. The resulting cross-attention provides a source-aligned coarse mask, which guides a two-stage diffusion inpainting pipeline to align the transferred hairstyle with the source head geometry. Across quantitative, qualitative, VLM-as-a-judge, and human preference evaluations, H-Adapter improves reference faithfulness and non-hair preservation under pose mismatch, while supporting flexible uses such as prompt-based hair-color control and identity-preserving gen-eration. More broadly, our results suggest that region-specific training can turn cross-attention into a useful localization signal for reference-guided local editing beyond hair. 

## References 

1. Black Forest Labs: Flux.2 [klein]: Towards interactive visual intelligence, https: 16 S. Jeong et al. 

//bfl.ai/blog/flux2-klein-towards-interactive-visual-intelligence 

2. Cao, M., Wang, X., Qi, Z., Shan, Y., Qie, X., Zheng, Y.: Masactrl: Tuning-free mutual self-attention control for consistent image synthesis and editing. In: Pro-ceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision. pp. 22560– 22570 (2023) 3. Chen, D., Chen, R., Zhang, S., Wang, Y., Liu, Y., Zhou, H., Zhang, Q., Wan, Y., Zhou, P., Sun, L.: Mllm-as-a-judge: Assessing multimodal llm-as-a-judge with vision-language benchmark. In: Forty-first International Conference on Machine Learning (2024) 4. Chung, C., Kim, T., Nam, H., Choi, S., Gu, G., Park, S., Choo, J.: Hairfit: pose-invariant hairstyle transfer via flow-based hair alignment and semantic-region-aware inpainting. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.08585 (2022) 5. Chung, C., Park, S., Kim, J., Choo, J.: What to preserve and what to transfer: Faithful, identity-preserving diffusion-based hairstyle transfer. In: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. vol. 39, pp. 2582–2590 (2025) 6. Comanici, G., et al.: Gemini 2.5: Pushing the frontier with advanced reason-ing, multimodality, long context, and next generation agentic capabilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.06261 (2025) 7. Couairon, G., Verbeek, J., Schwenk, H., Cord, M.: Diffedit: Diffusion-based seman-tic image editing with mask guidance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.11427 (2022) 8. Google DeepMind: Gemini 3 pro image – nano banana pro, https://deepmind. google/models/gemini-image/pro/ 

9. Güler, R.A., Neverova, N., Kokkinos, I.: Densepose: Dense human pose estimation in the wild. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. pp. 7297–7306 (2018) 10. h94: Ip-adapter, https://huggingface.co/h94/IP-Adapter 

11. h94: Ip-adapter-faceid, https://huggingface.co/h94/IP-Adapter-FaceID 

12. Hertz, A., Mokady, R., Tenenbaum, J., Aberman, K., Pritch, Y., Cohen-Or, D.: Prompt-to-prompt image editing with cross attention control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.01626 (2022) 13. Karras, T., Aila, T., Laine, S., Lehtinen, J.: Progressive growing of gans for im-proved quality, stability, and variation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1710.10196 (2017) 14. Karras, T., Laine, S., Aila, T.: A style-based generator architecture for generative adversarial networks. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. pp. 4401–4410 (2019) 15. Kim, T., Chung, C., Kim, Y., Park, S., Kim, K., Choo, J.: Style your hair: Latent optimization for pose-invariant hairstyle transfer via local-style-aware hair align-ment. In: European conference on computer vision. pp. 188–203. Springer (2022) 16. Ku, M., Jiang, D., Wei, C., Yue, X., Chen, W.: Viescore: Towards explainable metrics for conditional image synthesis evaluation. In: Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). pp. 12268–12290 (2024) 17. Kvanchiani, K., Petrova, E., Efremyan, K., Sautin, A., Kapitanov, A.: Easyportrait–face parsing and portrait segmentation dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13509 (2023) 18. Kynkäänniemi, T., Karras, T., Aittala, M., Aila, T., Lehtinen, J.: The role of imagenet classes in fr \’echet inception distance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.06026 (2022) 19. LAION: Clip-vit-h-14-laion2b-s32b-b79k, https://huggingface.co/laion/CLIP-ViT-H-14-laion2B-s32B-b79K H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 17 20. Lee, S., Kim, S., Park, S., Kim, G., Seo, M.: Prometheus-vision: Vision-language model as a judge for fine-grained evaluation. In: Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024. pp. 11286–11315 (2024) 21. Nichol, A., Dhariwal, P., Ramesh, A., Shyam, P., Mishkin, P., McGrew, B., Sutskever, I., Chen, M.: Glide: Towards photorealistic image generation and editing with text-guided diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.10741 (2021) 22. Nikolaev, M., Kuznetsov, M., Vetrov, D., Alanov, A.: Hairfastgan: Realistic and robust hair transfer with a fast encoder-based approach. Advances in Neural In-formation Processing Systems 37 , 45600–45635 (2024) 23. OpenAI: Gpt-4o system card. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21276 (2024) 24. OpenAI: Openai gpt-5 system card. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.03267 (2025) 25. OpenAI: Update to gpt-5 system card: Gpt-5.2. https://openai.com/index/gpt-5-system-card-update-gpt-5-2/ (2025) 26. Podell, D., English, Z., Lacey, K., Blattmann, A., Dockhorn, T., Müller, J., Penna, J., Rombach, R.: Sdxl: Improving latent diffusion models for high-resolution image synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.01952 (2023) 27. Radford, A., Kim, J.W., Hallacy, C., Ramesh, A., Goh, G., Agarwal, S., Sastry, G., Askell, A., Mishkin, P., Clark, J., et al.: Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervision. In: International conference on machine learning. pp. 8748–8763. PmLR (2021) 28. Ramesh, A., Dhariwal, P., Nichol, A., Chu, C., Chen, M.: Hierarchical text-conditional image generation with clip latents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.06125 

1(2), 3 (2022) 29. Rombach, R., Blattmann, A., Lorenz, D., Esser, P., Ommer, B.: High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. pp. 10684–10695 (2022) 30. Saha, R., Duke, B., Shkurti, F., Taylor, G.W., Aarabi, P.: Loho: Latent opti-mization of hairstyles via orthogonalization. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 1984–1993 (2021) 31. Saharia, C., Chan, W., Saxena, S., Li, L., Whang, J., Denton, E.L., Ghasemipour, K., Gontijo Lopes, R., Karagol Ayan, B., Salimans, T., et al.: Photorealistic text-to-image diffusion models with deep language understanding. Advances in neural information processing systems 35 , 36479–36494 (2022) 32. SG161222: Realistic vision v4.0 novae, https://huggingface.co/SG161222/ Realistic_Vision_V4.0_noVAE 

33. Slyman, E., Tanjim, M., Kafle, K., Lee, S.: Calibrating mllm-as-a-judge via multi-modal bayesian prompt ensembles. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision. pp. 17224–17234 (2025) 34. Stability AI: sd-vae-ft-mse, https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/sd-vae-ft-mse 

35. stabilityai: stable-diffusion-v1-5/stable-diffusion-inpainting, https : / /huggingface.co/stable-diffusion-v1-5/stable-diffusion-inpainting 

36. Szegedy, C., Vanhoucke, V., Ioffe, S., Shlens, J., Wojna, Z.: Rethinking the incep-tion architecture for computer vision. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. pp. 2818–2826 (2016) 37. Tan, Z., Chai, M., Chen, D., Liao, J., Chu, Q., Yuan, L., Tulyakov, S., Yu, N.: Michigan: multi-input-conditioned hair image generation for portrait editing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.16417 (2020) 38. Tumanyan, N., Geyer, M., Bagon, S., Dekel, T.: Plug-and-play diffusion features for text-driven image-to-image translation. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF con-ference on computer vision and pattern recognition. pp. 1921–1930 (2023) 18 S. Jeong et al. 39. Wang, Z., Bovik, A.C., Sheikh, H.R., Simoncelli, E.P.: Image quality assessment: from error visibility to structural similarity. IEEE transactions on image processing 

13 (4), 600–612 (2004) 40. Wei, T., Chen, D., Zhou, W., Liao, J., Tan, Z., Yuan, L., Zhang, W., Yu, N.: Hairclip: Design your hair by text and reference image. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. pp. 18072– 18081 (2022) 41. Wei, T., Chen, D., Zhou, W., Liao, J., Wang, C., Zhang, W., Hua, G., Yu, N.: Unifying multi-modal hair editing via proxy feature blending. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (2026) 42. Wei, T., Chen, D., Zhou, W., Liao, J., Zhang, W., Hua, G., Yu, N.: Hairclipv2: Unifying hair editing via proxy feature blending. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision. pp. 23589–23599 (2023) 43. Ye, H., Zhang, J., Liu, S., Han, X., Yang, W.: Ip-adapter: Text compati-ble image prompt adapter for text-to-image diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.06721 (2023) 44. Yu, C., Wang, J., Peng, C., Gao, C., Yu, G., Sang, N.: Bisenet: Bilateral segmenta-tion network for real-time semantic segmentation. In: Proceedings of the European conference on computer vision (ECCV). pp. 325–341 (2018) 45. Zeng, Y., Zhang, Y., Jiachen, L., Shen, L., Deng, K., He, W., Wang, J.: Hairdif-fusion: Vivid multi-colored hair editing via latent diffusion. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 , 5048–5073 (2024) 46. Zhang, X., Lu, Y., Wang, W., Yan, A., Yan, J., Qin, L., Wang, H., Yan, X., Wang, W.Y., Petzold, L.R.: Gpt-4v (ision) as a generalist evaluator for vision-language tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.01361 (2023) 47. Zhang, Y., Zhang, Q., Song, Y., Zhang, J., Tang, H., Liu, J.: Stable-hair: Real-world hair transfer via diffusion model. In: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. vol. 39, pp. 10348–10356 (2025) 48. Zhao, B., Wu, C., Li, D., Meng, H., Li, J., Zhang, J., Zhou, J., Lin, J., Gao, K., Cao, K., et al.: Qwen-image-2.0 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.10730 (2026) 49. Zhu, H., Wu, W., Zhu, W., Jiang, L., Tang, S., Zhang, L., Liu, Z., Loy, C.C.: Celebv-hq: A large-scale video facial attributes dataset. In: European conference on computer vision. pp. 650–667. Springer (2022) 50. Zhu, P., Abdal, R., Femiani, J., Wonka, P.: Barbershop: Gan-based image com-positing using segmentation masks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.01505 (2021) 51. Zhu, P., Abdal, R., Femiani, J., Wonka, P.: Hairnet: Hairstyle transfer with pose changes. In: European Conference on Computer Vision. pp. 651–667. Springer (2022) 52. Zou, S., Tang, J., Zhou, Y., He, J., Zhao, C., Zhang, R., Hu, Z., Sun, X.: Towards efficient diffusion-based image editing with instant attention masks. In: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. vol. 38, pp. 7864–7872 (2024) H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 19 

## Supplementary Material A Step-wise Analysis of Region-specific Loss 

This section provides a detailed analysis of the step-wise visualization in Fig. 5 of the main paper. For our method, the attention-derived localization is already source-aligned when overlaid on the bald input in panels (b–c). Although the resulting Mattn 

in panel (d) remains coarse and may include spurious regions, the intermediate image in panel (e) preserves the source head pose and shape. This enables Stage 2 to extract a pixel-level hair mask Mseg in panel (f), which localizes diffusion inpainting to the hair region, reduces unintended changes to non-hair content, and yields a well-aligned final result in panel (g). For comparison, we apply the same step-wise mask extraction and visualiza-tion procedure to the IP-Adapter baseline. Using the standard t8-based extrac-tion, IP-Adapter produces diffuse, low-contrast attention in panel (c), and the resulting binarized mask in panel (d) becomes almost entirely active, leading to near-global edits in the intermediate image in panel (e). Since t8 does not provide a consistent separator token for IP-Adapter, we additionally report results using a mask derived from t2. Using t2, which con-sistently emphasizes facial regions in panel (b-1), yields a mask that preserves the face while inpainting most non-facial regions in panel (d), inducing silhou-ette drift in panel (e) and propagating to a misaligned Mseg in panel (f) with boundary drift in the final output in panel (g). 

## B Implementation Details 

B.1 Training Details 

Following Sec. 4.1, we use self-pairs for FFHQ [14] and frame pairs from the same identity for CelebV-HQ [49]. For CelebV-HQ, we use the official metadata to retrieve the corresponding YouTube videos and retain only clips from which valid training pairs can be constructed. From each valid clip, we sample every 5th frame, estimate head pose for each sampled frame, and compute the yaw angle. Training pairs are then constructed by selecting, for each identity, the frame pair with the largest yaw difference. We further exclude samples without valid hair masks, i.e ., cases where BiSeNet [44] fails to produce a hair mask. The resulting training set contains 68,058 FFHQ images and 9,188 CelebV-HQ pairs. Training is conducted for 16,000 steps on a single NVIDIA RTX 5090 GPU with batch size 8 and learning rate 1 × 10 −4.

B.2 Inference Details 

In all experiments involving H-Adapter at inference time, we use CLIP-ViT-H-14 [19, 27] as the image encoder. H-Adapter is initialized from pretrained 20 S. Jeong et al.        

> Table 3: Average inference runtime per source–reference pair. Method Runtime (s) ↓
> HairFastGAN 0.78 H-Adapter (ours) 3.05 Stable-Hair 8.82 HairFusion 66.28

IP-Adapter-Plus weights [10,43], which use patch-based image conditioning. Al-though H-Adapter is trained on a Stable Diffusion base model, it can be attached at inference time to compatible variants that share the same base architecture. 

Inpainting-based Hairstyle Transfer For the inpainting-based hairstyle trans-fer pipeline, we use Stable Diffusion v1.5 Inpainting [29, 35] as the diffusion backbone. The hair-removed base images provided to the inpainting model are synthesized using FLUX.2-klein-9B [1]. The exact prompt used for synthesizing the hair-removed base images is provided in Sec. I.1. 

Reference-Guided Text-to-Image Generation For the reference-guided text-to-image generation results in Sec. 3.4 of the main paper, we use a standard text-to-image pipeline rather than the inpainting model, with Realistic Vision V4.0 [32] as the base model and a VAE fine-tuned with an MSE objective [34]. Notably, the H-Adapter trained once with the default SD base model can be di-rectly attached to the variant pipeline, where we apply the per-timestep reference gating described in Sec. 3.3 of the main paper during inference. 

Compatibility with Identity-Preserving Adapters We use the same text-to-image pipeline, base model, VAE, and H-Adapter reference gating as above. In this setting, H-Adapter is combined with IP-Adapter FaceID Plus [11] for identity preservation. We further apply complementary spatial masking: the H-Adapter branch is gated by the hair mask, while the IP-Adapter FaceID Plus branch is gated by the complementary non-hair mask. The effect of this design choice is analyzed in Sec. C.3. 

B.3 Runtime Analysis 

We report the average inference runtime per source–reference pair measured in our evaluation setup in Tab. 3. H-Adapter takes 3.05s per pair. It is slower than HairFastGAN, the fastest encoder-based GAN baseline, but faster than the compared diffusion-based hairstyle transfer baselines, Stable-Hair and HairFu-sion. This reflects an efficiency–quality trade-off: H-Adapter uses a multi-stage inpainting pipeline, but remains more efficient than the compared diffusion base-lines while achieving strong reference fidelity and overall quality. We include H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 21 Source Reference  

> Fig. 9: Qualitative results of H-Adapter (Ours) on EasyPortrait [17] and web-crawled images. H-Adapter preserves image quality and reference hairstyle features under di-verse, unconstrained conditions.

HairFastGAN as a fast encoder-based GAN representative. Earlier optimization-based GAN methods typically involve costly per-instance optimization, and are therefore not the focus of this runtime table. 

## C Additional Qualitative Results 

C.1 Results on In-the-Wild Images 

Figure 9 further presents results on in-the-wild images collected from the Easy-Portrait [17] dataset and additional web-crawled samples. Across diverse hairstyle categories, our method produces plausible hair placement and shape. It remains robust under unconstrained imaging conditions, such as wide variation in framing and head pose, while preserving distinctive reference attributes. These examples indicate that the proposed approach remains effective beyond the benchmark evaluation set. Figure 10 additionally presents results not only on real photographs but also on stylized images. Although H-Adapter is trained exclusively on real-photograph data from FFHQ and CelebV-HQ, it readily extends to these out-of-domain stylized inputs without domain adaptation or additional training, partly due to the broad image-conditioning prior inherited from pretrained IP-Adapter-Plus [10, 43]. Despite the domain shift, it still produces plausible hair placement while reflecting key attributes of the reference hairstyle. These results suggest that the proposed approach generalizes to a broader range of visual domains. 

Observed Limitation. Across diverse in-the-wild examples, our method pro-duces plausible hair placement and overall hairstyle transfer under varying poses and appearances. Nevertheless, we also observe failure cases in Fig. 11, where the model fails to preserve the reference-specific spatial relationship between hair and the underlying facial structure. In particular, although the generated hair 22 S. Jeong et al. Source  

> Reference
> Fig. 10: Additional qualitative results on stylized in-the-wild images. The proposed method generalizes well to illustration- and animation-like portraits.

may appear plausible on its own, it may not accurately reflect how the bangs extend relative to the forehead or eyebrow region in the reference. These obser-vations suggest that the remaining limitation lies in modeling the fine-grained spatial relationship between hairstyle and facial geometry. 

C.2 Reference-Guided Text-to-Image Generation 

We further apply H-Adapter to a standard text-to-image pipeline to generate im-ages conditioned on a text prompt and a reference hairstyle. As shown in Fig. 12, the generated images reflect both the textual prompt and the key hairstyle at-tributes of the reference image. These results indicate that H-Adapter can sup-port reference-guided hairstyle-aware generation across diverse textual contexts. 

C.3 Compatibility with Identity-Preserving Adapters 

We analyze the effect of the complementary spatial masking described in Sec. B.2. In Eq. (4) of the main paper, the H-Adapter branch is gated by the hair mask 

Mt. When combining H-Adapter with IP-Adapter FaceID Plus, we extend the formulation by additionally applying the complementary mask 1 − Mt to the H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 23 Source  

> Reference
> Fig. 11: Observed limitation on in-the-wild reference images from EasyPortrait [17]. In these cases, the generated front hair does not fully preserve the relative placement and facial coverage pattern of the reference.

FaceID Plus branch: 

Z = softmax 

 QK ⊤

√d



V

+ λ



Mt ⊙ softmax QK ′⊤ 

√d

!

V ′

+ λface 



(1 − Mt) ⊙ softmax QK ′′⊤ 

√d

!

V ′′ 

,

(5) where (K, V ) denote the key/value pairs from the standard cross-attention con-text, (K′, V ′) denote those from the H-Adapter branch, and (K′′ , V ′′ ) denote those from the IP-Adapter FaceID Plus branch. Here, λ controls the strength of the hairstyle condition from H-Adapter, while λface controls the strength of the identity-preserving condition from the FaceID Plus branch. As shown in Fig. 13, this complementary masking leads to better reflection of the reference hairstyle across different values of the H-Adapter conditioning scale λ. In con-trast, without applying 1 − Mt to the identity-preserving branch, the FaceID Plus condition more strongly interferes with the hairstyle condition, resulting in weaker reflection of the reference hairstyle. For visualization, we also show the gating mask MT extracted for the H-Adapter branch at the final denoising step T for the example with λ = 0 .4, while fixing the FaceID Plus conditioning scale to λface = 0 .6. The mask illustrates the spatial support of the H-Adapter branch, primarily covering the hair region. All results in Fig. 8 of the main paper are generated with this complementary masking applied to the FaceID Plus branch. 24 S. Jeong et al. “watercolor painting of a man ,      

> soft wash, paper texture, gentle
> gradients, high quality, high
> detail”
> Reference
> Text
> “portrait of a girl as a princess ,
> elegant dress, soft glow, high
> quality, high detail”
> “a girl in Ghibli anime style,
> soft shading, warm palette,
> scenic background, high quality,
> high detail”
> “head and shoulders portrait
> photograph of a young woman
> wearing white collared shirt,
> centered face, looking at camera,
> studio softbox lighting, ...”

Fig. 12: Reference-guided text-to-image generation with H-Adapter. Given diverse text prompts and reference hairstyle images, H-Adapter generates images that reflect both the textual prompt and the key hairstyle attributes of the reference image. All results are shown with the H-Adapter conditioning scale λ = 0 .6.

## D VLM-as-a-Judge 

D.1 Prompt Design Overview 

We evaluate each generated result along three axes: Hair Fidelity Score (HFS) , Non-hair Preservation Score (NPS) , and Artifact Quality Score (AQS) . To reduce inter-axis interference [16], each axis is assessed in-dependently using a separate prompt; the judge thus provides an axis-specific score rather than a joint multi-criteria assessment. For each axis, we construct three lexically distinct prompt variants that share the same evaluation objective and rubric anchors for the 1–5 Likert scale [20] but differ in surface wording. This design reduces sensitivity to any single prompt formulation [33]. Every prompt asks the judge to first articulate its rationale (chain-of-thought elicitation [16]) and then output a final integer score from 1 to 5. The same triplet is evaluated independently with all three variants for a given axis, and the resulting scores are averaged to obtain the per-triplet template-mean score for that axis. Model-level results are then computed by averaging these template-mean scores over the 200-triplet evaluation set. H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 25 Referenc e        

> Source
> “fantasy portrait of a girl in
> an enchanted forest , glowing
> plants, ethereal atmosphere,
> high quality, high detail”
> 0.2 0.4 0.6 𝑀 !(𝜆 =0.4)
> Text
> w/
> non -hair
> mask
> w/o
> non -hair
> mask
> 𝜆

Fig. 13: Compatibility of H-Adapter with IP-Adapter FaceID Plus. Results are gener-ated using a text-to-image pipeline with both H-Adapter and IP-Adapter FaceID Plus. The middle panels compare results w/ non-hair mask and w/o non-hair mask on the FaceID Plus branch across different H-Adapter conditioning scales λ. The rightmost panel visualizes the gating mask MT extracted at the final denoising step T for the example with λ = 0 .4.

To ensure a fair comparison across judges, we use identical prompt wording for all three VLM judges (GPT-4o, GPT-5.2, and Gemini-2.5-Flash), so that observed score differences reflect judge behavior rather than prompt-level varia-tion. 

D.2 Prompt Templates 

This section provides the exact prompt templates used in our VLM-as-a-judge evaluation. In every prompt, the corresponding images are provided in the fixed order specified in the template, and the judge is asked to return a structured out-put following the prescribed format. The exact prompt templates are provided in Sec. I.2. 

D.3 Reliability Validation 

We verify the evaluation pipeline through three complementary procedures: a consistency validation, a pairwise validation, and multi-judge execution. 

Consistency Validation. The same set of 80 evaluation queries is repeated three times per judge (240 queries total), where each query corresponds to a unique (source, reference, generated output, method, axis) tuple. We report 26 S. Jeong et al. 

Table 4: Consistency validation across judge models. The same 80 evaluation queries are repeated three times per judge (240 queries total), where each query is a unique (source, reference, generated output, method, axis) tuple. We report Krippendorff’s α

(ordinal) and the mean per-query score standard deviation ( σ) for each axis. Judge Model Axis Krippendorff’s α ↑ σ ↓

GPT-4o HFS 0.985 0.020 NPS 0.902 0.067 AQS 0.991 0.023 GPT-5.2 HFS 0.884 0.159 NPS 0.364 0.200 AQS 0.804 0.208 Gemini-2.5-Flash HFS 0.902 0.093 NPS 0.886 0.162 AQS 0.952 0.048 

Table 5: Pairwise win rates of ours vs. each baseline on the 40-triplet validation subset (bidirectional protocol,  win rate = wins ours /n ; ties counted as neither win nor loss). Results are shown for three VLM judges. 

GPT-4o Gemini-2.5-Flash GPT-5.2 

Method HFS NPS AQS HFS NPS AQS HFS NPS AQS HairFusion 0.71 0.93 0.80 0.70 0.91 0.74 0.84 0.86 0.79 Stable-Hair 0.64 0.91 0.85 0.61 0.85 0.88 0.50 0.80 0.81 HairFastGAN 0.63 0.73 0.68 0.63 0.61 0.59 0.66 0.63 0.55 HairCLIPv2 0.88 0.56 0.54 0.78 0.60 0.58 0.91 0.63 0.49 Style-Your-Hair 0.63 0.61 0.48 0.55 0.63 0.50 0.65 0.69 0.56 

Krippendorff’s α (ordinal) together with the mean per-query standard devia-tion ( σ) across runs (Tab. 4). GPT-4o achieves α ≥ 0.90 on all three axes with 

σ ≤ 0.07 , indicating very high run-to-run agreement. Based on this result, we select GPT-4o as the representative judge for the evaluation in the main paper (Tab. 2). Gemini-2.5-Flash also shows high consistency ( α ≥ 0.886 ), whereas GPT-5.2 exhibits notably lower reliability on NPS ( α = 0 .364 , σ = 0 .200 ). We attribute this to variability in GPT-5.2’s fine-grained identity judgments across runs on the NPS axis, and therefore caution against interpreting its NPS scores in isolation. Despite this instability, GPT-5.2 maintains acceptable consistency on HFS ( α = 0 .884 ) and AQS ( α = 0 .804 ). 

Pairwise Validation. As a complementary check on the pointwise rankings reported in the main paper, we conduct a pairwise preference analysis on a separate subset of 40 triplets. For each triplet, the judge is presented with two outputs—ours and one baseline—and asked to select a winner (A, B, or Tie) H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 27 

Table 6: VLM-as-a-judge scores (GPT-5.2) with 95 % bootstrap percentile CIs (nboot = 1 ,000 over per-triplet template-mean scores). Method HFS ↑ NPS ↑ AQS ↑

Ours 3.72 [3.62, 3.81] 4.16 [4.08, 4.23] 3.48 [3.39, 3.56] 

HairFusion 2.95 [2.82, 3.08] 3.56 [3.48, 3.65] 3.02 [2.92, 3.13] 

Stable-Hair 3.58 [3.46, 3.70] 3.58 [3.49, 3.68] 2.93 [2.83, 3.03] 

HairFastGAN 3.30 [3.17, 3.42] 4.10 [4.04, 4.17] 3.40 [3.31, 3.50] 

HairCLIPv2 2.37 [2.22, 2.51] 4.04 [3.96, 4.11] 3.42 [3.32, 3.52] 

Style-Your-Hair 3.33 [3.21, 3.45] 4.00 [3.93, 4.07] 3.38 [3.28, 3.47] 

Table 7: VLM-as-a-judge scores (Gemini-2.5-Flash) with 95 % bootstrap percentile CIs ( nboot = 1 ,000 over per-triplet template-mean scores). Method HFS ↑ NPS ↑ AQS ↑

Ours 2.68 [2.54, 2.81] 3.11 [2.98, 3.24] 2.74 [2.62, 2.86] 

HairFusion 2.08 [1.98, 2.20] 2.39 [2.29, 2.50] 2.08 [1.99, 2.18] 

Stable-Hair 2.28 [2.14, 2.42] 2.25 [2.14, 2.36] 1.91 [1.82, 2.00] 

HairFastGAN 2.41 [2.30, 2.52] 2.79 [2.69, 2.90] 2.38 [2.29, 2.48] 

HairCLIPv2 1.80 [1.68, 1.91] 2.87 [2.75, 2.99] 2.45 [2.33, 2.56] 

Style-Your-Hair 2.40 [2.26, 2.54] 2.76 [2.64, 2.86] 2.51 [2.40, 2.60] 

on each axis. To control for position bias, we adopt a bidirectional protocol: the same pair is evaluated twice with the presentation order reversed (AB and BA). If the two orderings yield a consistent winner the verdict is accepted; otherwise the comparison is recorded as a Tie. Win rates in Tab. 5 are computed as wins ours /n ,where ties count as neither a win nor a loss. 2

Multi-judge Execution. To reduce single-judge bias, the entire pipeline is executed with three VLM judges—GPT-4o [23], GPT-5.2 [24, 25], and Gemini-2.5-Flash [6]—all of which provide versioned API snapshots for reproducibility. Per-judge pointwise scores and cross-judge analysis are reported in Sec. D.4. 

D.4 Pointwise Results Across Judges Per-Judge Pointwise Scores. Tables 6 and 7 report the full pointwise scores for GPT-5.2 and Gemini-2.5-Flash, respectively, complementing the GPT-4o re-sults reported in Tab. 2 of the main paper.  

> 2

An alternative convention assigns half-credit to ties (adjusted = ( wins +0 .5×ties )/n ). We report the strict variant for transparency; the adjusted values lead to the same ordinal conclusions. 28 S. Jeong et al.                                                                                 

> Table 8: Human preference study results. We report the number of valid pairwise votes, the preference rate for H-Adapter, 95% confidence intervals, and two-sided exact binomial test results against chance level ( 50% ). Baseline Votes Ours (%) 95% CI p-value HairCLIPv2 624 81.1 [77.8, 84.0] <0.001
> HairFastGAN 595 55.3 [51.3, 59.2] 0.011 HairFusion 678 80.4 [77.2, 83.2] <0.001
> Stable-Hair 656 72.9 [69.3, 76.1] <0.001
> Style-Your-Hair 640 72.3 [68.8, 75.7] <0.001
> Overall 3193 72.7 ––
> Table 9: Quantitative comparison on the pose-agnostic subset. Method FID ↓FID CLIP ↓SSIM ↑PSNR ↑CLIP-I ↑
> Ours 11.56 3.97 0.833 23.25 0.669
> IP-Adapter ( t8) 12.94 6.98 0.815 22.33 0.656 IP-Adapter ( t2) 11.88 4.14 0.829 23.04 0.662 HairFusion 28.92 9.07 0.748 16.87 0.632 Stable-Hair 25.98 8.16 0.797 22.32 0.652 HairFastGAN 12.30 4.44 0.815 24.46 0.661 HairCLIPv2 13.30 6.65 0.831 24.18 0.635 Style-Your-Hair 15.53 7.58 0.821 23.19 0.661

Ranking Consistency across Judges. Despite differences in absolute score calibration, the ordinal ranking of methods is largely preserved across all three judges. Ours achieves the highest mean on all three axes with every judge. The key structural patterns observed in the GPT-4o results also hold: Hair-CLIPv2 [42] consistently ranks last on HFS but performs competitively on NPS and AQS, while Stable-Hair [47] shows the opposite trade-off, achieving rela-tively high HFS but the lowest NPS and AQS. Style-Your-Hair [15] remains the most balanced competitor, ranking second or third on AQS across all judges while staying competitive on NPS, but it consistently underperforms on HFS. No baseline other than ours maintains top-tier performance across all three axes simultaneously. 

Calibration Differences. Gemini-2.5-Flash assigns systematically lower abso-lute scores than the other two judges ( e.g ., the highest HFS mean is 2.68 vs. 3.11 for GPT-4o and 3.72 for GPT-5.2). This reflects a stricter interpretation of the rubric anchors rather than a qualitative disagreement, as the relative ordering of methods remains consistent. GPT-5.2, conversely, tends toward higher absolute scores, particularly on HFS, where even lower-ranked methods exceed 3.0. These calibration differences underscore the importance of reporting ordinal rankings and within-judge comparisons rather than comparing raw scores across judges. H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 29 

D.5 Pairwise Validation Across Judges Overall Pairwise Results. The pairwise win rates in Tab. 5 corroborate the pointwise rankings. Across all three judges, ours achieves win rates above 0.50 on nearly every axis–baseline combination, with large margins on HFS ( e.g ., 0.88 vs. HairCLIPv2 with GPT-4o) and NPS ( e.g ., 0.93 vs. HairFusion [5] with GPT-4o). The per-baseline trade-offs identified in the pointwise analysis are directly mirrored in the pairwise results. Against HairCLIPv2, ours achieves dominant HFS win rates ( ≥ 0.78 ) but the margin narrows substantially on NPS and AQS (0.49–0.63), reflecting HairCLIPv2’s conservative editing strategy. Against Stable-Hair, the pattern reverses: HFS win rates are among the most modest (0.50–0.64) while ours dominates on NPS (0.80–0.91) and AQS (0.81–0.88). The closest overall competitor remains Style-Your-Hair, whose AQS win rates reach near-parity at 0.48 (GPT-4o) and 0.50 (Gemini-2.5-Flash), consistent with the overlapping confidence intervals reported in the main paper; however, ours main-tains a clear HFS advantage (0.55–0.65). Given GPT-5.2’s low NPS consistency ( α = 0 .364 ; Tab. 4), its NPS pairwise verdicts should be interpreted with caution. Nevertheless, the directional trends remain aligned with the other two judges. Overall, the pairwise results provide an independent validation of the pointwise analysis in the main paper. Across judges, the directional preferences are broadly consistent with the pointwise score differences, supporting the same qualitative conclusions. 

## E Human Preference Study 

We conduct a pairwise human preference study to complement the automatic metrics and VLM-as-a-judge evaluation. For each question, participants are shown the same source and reference images together with two anonymized out-puts, one from H-Adapter and one from a baseline method. They are asked to choose the preferred result by jointly considering reference-hairstyle fidelity, non-hair preservation, and visual/artifact quality. Participants are allowed to answer an arbitrary number of questions. We collect 3,193 valid pairwise votes from 53 valid respondents. Overall, H-Adapter is preferred in 72.7% of all comparisons. Tab. 8 reports the preference rate against each baseline. H-Adapter is preferred over all compared baselines, with particularly large margins over HairCLIPv2, HairFusion, Stable-Hair, and Style-Your-Hair. The preference margin over HairFastGAN is smaller but re-mains above chance. 30 S. Jeong et al. 

Table 10: Quantitative comparison under the controlled evaluation with hair-removed source images (Flux). For comparison methods, values in parentheses denote differences from the corresponding original-setting results on the same reduced subset. Method Pose-Agnostic ( n = 2924 )FID ↓ FID CLIP ↓ SSIM ↑ PSNR ↑ CLIP-I ↑

Ours 11.59 3.97 0.833 23.24 0.669 

IP-Adapter ( t8) 12.96 6.96 0.815 22.32 0.656 IP-Adapter ( t2) 11.91 4.14 0.829 23.04 0.663 HairFusion 26.04 (−2.99 ) 9.78 (+0 .71 ) 0.725 (−0.023 ) 16.12 (−0.74 ) 0.631 (−0.002 )

Stable-Hair 17.45 (−8.69 ) 5.99 (−2.18 ) 0.833 (+0 .037 ) 23.15 (+0 .84 ) 0.655 (+0 .003 )

HairFastGAN 13.34 (+1 .03 ) 5.89 (+1 .45 ) 0.794 (−0.021 ) 21.53 (−2.93 ) 0.660 (−0.001 )

Style-Your-Hair 15.37 (−0.19 ) 8.70 (+1 .13 ) 0.811 (−0.010 ) 22.36 (−0.83 ) 0.657 (−0.005 )

HairCLIPv2 14.56 (+1 .23 ) 8.82 (+2 .18 ) 0.824 (−0.007 ) 22.99 (−1.19 ) 0.632 (−0.003 )

Method Pose-Different ( n = 2876 )FID ↓ FID CLIP ↓ SSIM ↑ PSNR ↑ CLIP-I ↑

Ours 12.48 3.98 0.831 23.07 0.659 

IP-Adapter ( t8) 15.29 8.82 0.803 21.56 0.640 IP-Adapter ( t2) 12.55 4.26 0.825 22.70 0.652 HairFusion 26.35 (−1.76 ) 9.43 (+0 .63 ) 0.731 (−0.025 ) 16.50 (−0.76 ) 0.624 (−0.002 )

Stable-Hair 18.32 (−7.56 ) 6.66 (−2.05 ) 0.835 (+0 .037 ) 23.19 (+0 .80 ) 0.641 (+0 .001 )

HairFastGAN 13.73 (+0 .92 ) 6.04 (+1 .50 ) 0.795 (−0.022 ) 21.45 (−2.96 ) 0.649 (−0.001 )

Style-Your-Hair 16.08 (+0 .09 ) 10.25 (+1 .74 ) 0.807 (−0.009 ) 22.03 (−0.78 ) 0.641 (−0.009 )

HairCLIPv2 15.43 (+1 .97 ) 10.37 (+2 .48 ) 0.819 (−0.005 ) 22.63 (−1.01 ) 0.619 (−0.004 )

## F Additional Quantitative Analysis 

F.1 Quantitative Results on the Pose-Agnostic Subset 

We report quantitative results on the pose-agnostic subset in Tab. 9. Unlike the pose-different subset used in the main paper, this subset is constructed without explicitly enforcing a large head-pose gap between the source and reference, and thus reflects a more general hairstyle-transfer setting. As shown in Tab. 9, our method achieves the best overall performance, ob-taining the best results on FID, FID CLIP , SSIM, and CLIP-I, while remaining competitive in PSNR. These results indicate that our method generates visually higher-quality images, more faithfully reflects the reference hairstyle, and better preserves non-hair structure. Compared with the pose-different subset in Tab. 1 in the main paper, most methods perform slightly better on the pose-agnostic subset, which is expected because pose mismatch is less severe. Nevertheless, the overall trend remains largely unchanged, and our method continues to perform best overall. H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 31 

Table 11: Quantitative comparison for different training data compositions. Pose-agnostic subset Pose-different subset Method FID ↓ FID CLIP ↓ SSIM ↑ PSNR ↑ CLIP-I ↑ FID ↓ FID CLIP ↓ SSIM ↑ PSNR ↑ CLIP-I ↑                    

> Ours w/o CelebV-HQ 10.97 4.25 0.763 18.35 0.668 11.79 4.22 0.761 18.35 0.657 Ours 11.42 3.98 0.833 23.25 0.668 12.34 4.00 0.830 23.05 0.657

F.2 Controlled Evaluation with Hair-Removed Source Images 

We additionally conduct a controlled quantitative evaluation in which all meth-ods are tested using the same hair-removed base images as in our method. Specif-ically, these are the hair-removed base images ˜xs used as inputs to our pipeline. For each method, the original source image is replaced with the corresponding hair-removed base image, and image generation and evaluation are then per-formed under this shared setting. For HairFusion [5], the pipeline includes a preprocessing stage that extracts a source hair mask and constructs a hair-agnostic image prior to generation. We therefore reuse the preprocessing data produced by the original pipeline and replace only the source image with the corresponding hair-removed base image, while keeping all other inputs unchanged. In this setting, additional failures arise in HairFusion during landmark extraction. We therefore exclude these samples from evaluation, removing an additional 14 samples from the pose-agnostic sub-set and 23 samples from the pose-different subset relative to the set evaluated in Tab. 9 and Tab. 1. As a result, this controlled evaluation is conducted on 2,924 and 2,876 samples for the pose-agnostic and pose-different subsets, respectively. To enable a fair comparison and to make the shift induced by the controlled input setting explicit, we also report, for each comparison method, the differ-ence from its original-setting result on the same reduced subset in parentheses in Tab. 10. The results show that our method consistently achieves the best performance in terms of FID, FID CLIP , and CLIP-I on both the pose-agnostic and pose-different subsets. For most baselines, performance degrades under this setting, likely because they are neither trained nor designed to operate on hair-removed source images, and thus face a distribution shift when the original source image is replaced with a bald base. At the same time, the FLUX-based hair-removed input does appear to provide a favorable condition for preserving non-hair regions, as reflected by the substantial gains of Stable Hair [47] in SSIM and PSNR, together with noticeable improvements in FID and FID CLIP . However, these gains do not translate into corresponding improvements in reference-hairstyle transfer quality or overall perceptual quality, where our method remains superior. Considering that our method is designed not primarily to preserve the source non-hair appearance itself, but rather to generate a hairstyle aligned with the source head geometry and pose, these results suggest that the advantage of our method cannot be explained solely by the use of FLUX-based hair-removed inputs. 32 S. Jeong et al. Ground Truth Heatmap  

> (8x8)
> Mask
> (8x8)
> Heatmap
> (16x16)
> Mask
> (16x16)
> Heatmap
> (32x32)
> Mask
> (32x32)
> Heatmap
> (Avg)
> Mask
> (Avg) 1.0
> 0.0

Fig. 14: Analysis of attention resolution for mask extraction. The leftmost image shows the source image overlaid with the ground-truth hair mask. The remaining columns show, from left to right, the attention heat map and the resulting mask overlaid on the source image, extracted from the 8 × 8, 16 × 16 , 32 × 32 , and all-resolution averaged cross-attention maps, respectively. The 16 × 16 attention maps provide an appropriate granularity for coarse hair localization. 

F.3 Effect of Training Data Composition 

We further analyze the effect of including CelebV-HQ [49] in training. In our training setup, FFHQ [14] samples are formed as self-pairs where the same im-age serves as both the reference and the target ( xj = xi), whereas CelebV-HQ provides cross-frame pairs where xj and xi correspond to different frames of the same identity ( xj̸ = xi). Our full model is trained on both FFHQ and CelebV-HQ, whereas the variant Ours w/o CelebV-HQ is trained on FFHQ only. Results on the pose-agnostic and pose-different subsets are presented in Tab. 11. Overall, adding CelebV-HQ improves SSIM and PSNR on both subsets, in-dicating better preservation of source structure. We attribute this gain to the cross-frame supervision in CelebV-HQ: since reference and target frames differ in pose and expression while sharing the same identity, the model is encouraged to learn stronger invariances in non-hair regions and to avoid unnecessary changes beyond the intended hair manipulation, leading to improved structural fidelity. For the fidelity metrics, Ours w/o CelebV-HQ yields lower FID, whereas the full model yields lower FID CLIP , indicating a metric-dependent trade-off under different training data compositions. Notably, CLIP-I remains comparable across the two training-data compositions on both subsets, including the pose-different subset. This suggests that overall fidelity exhibits a metric-dependent trade-off (FID vs. FID CLIP ) with the inclusion of cross-frame pairs, while self-paired supervision alone can still capture reference hairstyle attributes to a large extent. 

## G Analysis of Attention-Based Mask Extraction 

G.1 Choice of Attention Resolution for Mask Extraction 

As described in the main paper, we derive an attention-based coarse mask by aggregating cross-attention maps over all tokens except the separator token, which consistently attends to non-hair regions. This mask is used as a coarse spatial prior for inpainting and attention gating. This subsection examines which attention resolution is most suitable for mask extraction. We compare masks extracted from 8 × 8, 16 × 16 , 32 × 32 , and all H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 33      

> Fig. 15: Quantitative comparison of attention resolutions for mask extraction. Eval-uated on 3,000 randomly sampled images, the bars show the mean IoU between the attention-derived mask and the ground-truth hair mask, with error bars representing the standard deviation across samples. The 16 ×16 resolution achieves the highest mean IoU, supporting its use for coarse mask extraction.

resolutions combined. For controlled evaluation, we use the same image as the reference, while the source is constructed as a hair-removed base image of the same sample. This setting provides a well-defined ground-truth hair mask for IoU computation; with different source and reference images, the target hair region would not be uniquely defined. We then extract the mask after a one-step warm-up inference. For each resolution, we aggregate the cross-attention maps and obtain a binary mask by thresholding the resulting attention map at its mean value. To isolate the effect of attention resolution itself, we do not apply any additional post-processing to the resulting mask. As shown in Fig. 14, the 16 × 16 attention maps provide an appropriate granularity for coarse hair localization, capturing the overall spatial extent of hair without being excessively coarse or dominated by fine high-frequency structures. This observation is further supported by the quantitative comparison in Fig. 15, where the 16 ×16 resolution achieves the highest mean IoU with the ground-truth hair mask over 3,000 randomly sampled images. Based on these qualitative and quantitative results, we use the 16 × 16 cross-attention maps for mask extraction throughout the paper. 

G.2 Additional Details on Separator-Token Selection 

The main paper reports the separator-token selection analysis, where t8 achieves the highest mean IoU max over 3,000 samples. Here, we provide additional details of the evaluation protocol. Our pipeline constructs the coarse attention mask as Mattn = Binarize 

P  

> k̸=s

CA (tk)



,where CA (tk) denotes the cross-attention map of token tk, and s denotes the separator-token index. For each candidate separator index s ∈ { 0, . . . , 15 }, we 34 S. Jeong et al.    

> Fig. 16: Separator-token analysis over the 16 IP-Adapter tokens. For each token, we retain the larger IoU between the mask obtained by excluding that token from attention aggregation and the corresponding token-only mask. The highest mean IoU is achieved by t8over 3,000 samples, supporting its use as the separator token in our pipeline.

construct the coarse mask using the definition above and also evaluate the token-only mask Binarize( CA (ts)) against the ground-truth hair mask. We then report the larger IoU between the two masks, which measures how well each token sep-arates hair and non-hair regions without assuming in advance whether the token itself corresponds to hair or non-hair. As reported in the main paper, t8 achieves the highest mean IoU max (0.549 ), while the remaining tokens yield similar but consistently lower values. This sup-ports our use of s = 8 as the separator token in the main pipeline. 

G.3 Value-Vector Analysis of the Separator Token 

We further analyze the separator-token behavior from the perspective of the adapter value vectors. For each token, we compute its normalized value-vector norm by dividing its norm by the average norm of the remaining tokens. As shown in Fig. 17, the pretrained IP-Adapter already assigns the smallest value-vector norm to t8, suggesting that this token has a relatively weak role in in-jecting reference appearance. After training with the proposed region-specific objective, H-Adapter further reduces the relative norm of t8 from approximately 

0.22 to 0.15 of the other-token average, while its attention map consistently aligns with non-hair regions across different random seeds. This suggests that the region-specific objective amplifies a weak pre-existing token-level bias into a stable non-hair separator, rather than producing a single-run artifact. H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 35      

> Fig. 17: Analysis of separator-token behavior. We visualize the normalized value-vector norms of IP-Adapter and H-Adapter tokens. The t8token already has a relatively small norm in the pretrained IP-Adapter, and the proposed region-specific objective further reduces its relative norm in H-Adapter. This supports the interpretation that t8acts as a stable non-hair separator rather than a single-run artifact.

G.4 Comparison of Attention-Derived Masks with HairFusion 

We further compare masks derived from cross-attention in our method and Hair-Fusion [5] to analyze how the training design affects the extracted masks and the resulting generation quality. To compare the cross-attention-derived masks di-rectly, we visualize only the mask extracted from cross-attention for each method. In HairFusion, this mask is not the final mask used for latent blending, as it is further combined with the source hair mask in the original pipeline. The visual-ized masks also arise at different stages of the two pipelines, reflecting the design of each method: for our method, the mask is extracted from the single warm-up denoising step, whereas in HairFusion, latent blending is performed during the last n denoising steps, with a cross-attention-based mask extracted at each step; here we show the mask from the final step T .As shown in Fig. 18, although both methods use cross-attention to obtain spatial guidance, the resulting masks differ in their selectivity and localization. Both HairFusion and our method demonstrate that cross-attention can provide useful spatial cues for hairstyle transfer. Our method further improves the se-lectivity of this signal through region-specific training, encouraging H-Adapter to transfer reference hairstyle information primarily within hair regions while limiting its effect on non-hair regions. As a result, the coarse mask derived from cross-attention is more tightly localized to hair regions, whereas the mask from HairFusion tends to extend more broadly into nearby visual context. 36 S. Jeong et al. Source Reference   

> Ours
> Refined mask
> Generated
> image Initial mask Refined mask
> Generated
> image Initial mask
> HairFusion

Fig. 18: Comparison of attention-derived masks and generated results between our method and HairFusion [5]. The initial mask is obtained by thresholding the attention-derived map, while the refined mask denotes the post-processed mask actually used in each pipeline. Our method yields an initial mask that more selectively captures the hair region, making it better suited for spatially localizing hairstyle transfer. 

## H Discussion and Future Work 

Extension to newer backbones. H-Adapter is implemented and validated on the SD1.5/IP-Adapter-Plus backbone. Generalizing the framework to newer dif-fusion backbones and adapter architectures is an important direction for future work. Since token behavior and attention patterns can differ across backbone and adapter designs, this motivates future work on adapting the separator-token se-lection and attention-based mask extraction strategy to each target architecture. 

Out-of-Benchmark Occlusions. Our benchmark focuses on hairstyle transfer for face images without explicit head coverings. Cases involving hats, scarves, helmets, or other head coverings are therefore outside the scope of the current benchmark. While our additional qualitative results show that H-Adapter can handle diverse and unusual hairstyles, robustly distinguishing hair from non-hair head coverings remains an open challenge. Extending the benchmark and method to such occluded cases is a promising direction for future work. H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 37 

## I Exact Prompt Templates 

This section provides the exact prompt templates used in our experiments. 

I.1 FLUX Editing Prompt for Hair-Removed Base Image Generation 

Using the provided reference image, remove all hair so the person is completely bald. All non-hair regions are preserved exactly as in the original image: identical pixels, identical color channels, unchanged lighting, background, facial identity, pose, composition, and focal characteristics, with no global or local color shift. 

> ,→
> ,→

Edits are confined strictly to the original hair region only. The result contains no new elements: no added objects, accessories, extra details, or stylization. Image rendering remains unchanged everywhere else. 

> ,→
> ,→

I.2 VLM-as-a-Judge Prompt Templates 

This section provides the exact prompt templates used in our VLM-as-a-judge evaluation. 

HFS Template A. 

You are an expert evaluator for hair transfer image generation tasks. Axis: HFS (Hair Fidelity Score) Goal: Evaluate how faithfully the hair in RESULT reflects the hair in REFERENCE. Image order (fixed): - Image 1 = REFERENCE - Image 2 = RESULT Evaluation scope (ONLY hair-related attributes): - color / tone / highlights - texture (straight, wavy, curly, coily) - length - silhouette / volume / overall shape - bangs, parting, forehead exposure, hairline consistency Do NOT consider: - face identity - skin or expression - background, clothing, accessories - overall realism/beauty (unless hair visibility is directly affected) Scoring rubric (integer 1-5): - 5: Nearly perfect transfer. Hair color, texture, length, and style are all highly consistent with REFERENCE. ,→

- 4: Strong transfer with only minor mismatch in one attribute. - 3: Partial transfer. Some key attributes match, but noticeable mismatch exists. - 2: Weak transfer. Multiple major mismatches across attributes. - 1: Failed transfer. Hair in RESULT is largely unrelated to REFERENCE. Recommended tags (use zero or more if applicable): - silhouette_mismatch - bangs_part_mismatch - texture_mismatch - color_mismatch - hairline_mismatch - partial_transfer - style_identity_mismatch 38 S. Jeong et al. 

Uncertainty rule: If hair is hard to judge due to occlusion, blur, extreme pose, or severe cropping, set is_uncertain=true. ,→

Return ONLY one JSON object with this exact structure (and only these keys): {"axis": "HFS", "score": <integer 1..5>, "rationale": ["<short evidence 1>", "<short evidence 2>", "<optional evidence 3>", "<optional evidence 4>"], ,→

"tags": ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"], "is_uncertain": <true|false> }Constraints: - rationale must have 2 to 4 short evidence bullets. - Use only visual evidence from the images. - No extra text outside JSON. 

HFS Template B. 

You are evaluating hair transfer quality with a strict rubric. Axis: HFS (Hair Fidelity Score) Task: Compare RESULT to REFERENCE and score hair transfer fidelity. Image order (for this prompt): - First inspect Image 2 (RESULT) to identify its hair attributes. - Then compare against Image 1 (REFERENCE). Evaluate ONLY hair attributes: 1) color and tone/highlights 2) texture/curl pattern 3) length 4) silhouette/volume and style identity (including bangs/part) Ignore ALL non-hair factors: - face identity - skin tone/lighting - background/clothes - general aesthetics Score mapping: - 5: Hair attributes are almost fully aligned with REFERENCE. - 4: Mostly aligned with minor inconsistency. - 3: Mixed; clear match in some attributes but clear mismatch in others. - 2: Major mismatch in multiple attributes. - 1: Minimal or no meaningful transfer. Tag from applicable error types: - silhouette_mismatch - bangs_part_mismatch - texture_mismatch - color_mismatch - hairline_mismatch - partial_transfer - style_identity_mismatch Set is_uncertain=true when visibility is insufficient (blur/occlusion/cropping/extreme pose). Output ONLY JSON in the following exact form (and only these keys): {"axis": "HFS", "score": <integer 1..5>, "rationale": ["<short evidence 1>", "<short evidence 2>", "<optional evidence 3>", "<optional evidence 4>"], ,→

"tags": ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"], "is_uncertain": <true|false> }H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 39 

Constraints: - rationale length: 2-4 bullets. - no markdown, no prose outside JSON. 

HFS Template C. 

You are a strict hair-transfer judge. Axis: HFS (Hair Fidelity Score) Evaluate REFERENCE (Image 1) -> RESULT (Image 2). Procedure: 1) Determine which hair error tags apply. 2) Judge severity and assign final integer score 1..5. Allowed error tags: - silhouette_mismatch - bangs_part_mismatch - texture_mismatch - color_mismatch - hairline_mismatch - partial_transfer - style_identity_mismatch Scoring guidance from error severity: - 5: No meaningful hair errors. - 4: One minor error. - 3: One or two clear errors (moderate impact). - 2: Multiple major errors. - 1: Hairstyle is largely unrelated to REFERENCE. Hard constraints: - Evaluate hair only. - Ignore identity/background/clothing/beauty. - If uncertain due to low visibility, set is_uncertain=true. Return ONLY JSON with only these keys: {"axis": "HFS", "score": <integer 1..5>, "rationale": ["<short evidence 1>", "<short evidence 2>", "<optional evidence 3>", "<optional evidence 4>"], ,→

"tags": ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"], "is_uncertain": <true|false> }Constraints: - rationale must contain 2-4 concise evidence bullets. - no extra text outside the JSON object. 

NPS Template A. 

You are an expert evaluator for hair transfer outputs. Axis: NPS (Non-hair Preservation Score) Goal: Evaluate how well non-hair regions from SOURCE are preserved in RESULT. Image order (fixed): - Image 1 = SOURCE - Image 2 = RESULT Evaluate ONLY non-hair regions: - facial identity (eyes/nose/mouth geometry, face shape) - skin tone and local lighting consistency - expression and pose consistency - background consistency 40 S. Jeong et al. 

- clothing/accessories consistency - artifact/distortion near hair-face boundary Do NOT consider: - hairstyle quality - hairstyle similarity to reference Scoring rubric (integer 1-5): - 5: Non-hair regions are almost perfectly preserved. - 4: Minor drift only; identity and scene are clearly preserved. - 3: Noticeable but moderate drift; partially preserved. - 2: Significant drift in identity and/or scene. - 1: Preservation failure; non-hair regions largely changed. Recommended tags: - identity_drift - facial_feature_change - skin_tone_shift - lighting_shift - pose_expression_change - background_change - clothing_accessory_change - artifact_or_distortion Uncertainty rule: If non-hair regions are hard to judge due to occlusion, blur, extreme pose, or crop, set is_uncertain=true. ,→

Return ONLY one JSON object: {"axis": "NPS", "score": <integer 1..5>, "rationale": ["<short evidence 1>", "<short evidence 2>", "<optional evidence 3>", "<optional evidence 4>"], ,→

"tags": ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"], "is_uncertain": <true|false> }Constraints: - rationale must have 2-4 short bullets. - no text outside JSON. 

NPS Template B. 

You are evaluating non-hair preservation for hair-transfer outputs. Axis: NPS (Non-hair Preservation Score) Task: Compare SOURCE (Image 1) and RESULT (Image 2) only on non-hair regions. Comparison checklist: 1) facial identity geometry (eyes, nose, mouth, contour) 2) skin tone and lighting/shadow 3) expression and pose 4) background consistency 5) clothing/accessories consistency Ignore hairstyle quality and hairstyle transfer quality completely. Score mapping: - 5: Preserved almost perfectly. - 4: Minor change but same identity/scene. - 3: Moderate change; still partially preserved. - 2: Major changes in multiple non-hair aspects. - 1: Non-hair preservation largely failed. Use applicable tags: - identity_drift - facial_feature_change - skin_tone_shift H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 41 

- lighting_shift - pose_expression_change - background_change - clothing_accessory_change - artifact_or_distortion If non-hair evidence is insufficient, set is_uncertain=true. Return ONLY JSON with only these keys: {"axis": "NPS", "score": <integer 1..5>, "rationale": ["<short evidence 1>", "<short evidence 2>", "<optional evidence 3>", "<optional evidence 4>"], ,→

"tags": ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"], "is_uncertain": <true|false> }Constraints: - rationale length must be 2-4. - no prose outside JSON. 

NPS Template C. 

You are a strict rubric-based evaluator for non-hair preservation. Axis: NPS (Non-hair Preservation Score) Evaluate SOURCE (Image 1) -> RESULT (Image 2). Step 1) Select non-hair error tags that apply. Step 2) Map error severity to score 1..5. Allowed tags: - identity_drift - facial_feature_change - skin_tone_shift - lighting_shift - pose_expression_change - background_change - clothing_accessory_change - artifact_or_distortion Score-by-severity guidance: - 5: No meaningful non-hair error. - 4: One minor non-hair error. - 3: Moderate errors but partial preservation remains. - 2: Multiple major errors. - 1: Severe preservation failure. Rules: - Judge only non-hair preservation. - Ignore hairstyle quality and hairstyle-reference match. - If uncertain due to visibility issues, set is_uncertain=true. Return ONLY JSON with only these keys: {"axis": "NPS", "score": <integer 1..5>, "rationale": ["<short evidence 1>", "<short evidence 2>", "<optional evidence 3>", "<optional evidence 4>"], ,→

"tags": ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"], "is_uncertain": <true|false> }Constraints: - rationale must contain 2-4 concise bullets. - no additional text outside JSON. 42 S. Jeong et al. 

AQS Template A. 

You are an expert evaluator for hair transfer outputs. Axis: AQS (Artifact Quality Score) Goal: Evaluate how artifact-free the RESULT image is. Image order (fixed): - Image 1 = RESULT Evaluate ONLY artifact-related visual defects: - hair boundary and blending quality (hair-skin / hair-background transitions) - hairline or contour breakage / jagged edges / halo - unnatural face or skin texture (waxy, plastic, smudged) - visible seam, patch, compositing trace - structural distortion or unnatural cut-off - blur/focus degradation - noise/compression degradation - repetition/tiling artifacts Do NOT consider: - hairstyle similarity to any reference - identity preservation vs source - personal aesthetic preference Scoring rubric (integer 1-5): - 5: Almost no visible artifacts; result looks clean and natural. - 4: One minor artifact with limited impact. - 3: One clear artifact or multiple minor artifacts. - 2: Multiple noticeable artifacts degrading quality. - 1: Severe artifacts making the result clearly unnatural. Recommended tags (use zero or more if applicable): - boundary_blending_artifact - hairline_contour_artifact - unnatural_skin_texture - visible_patch_or_seam - structural_distortion - blur_or_focus_artifact - noise_or_compression_artifact - repetition_or_tiling_artifact Uncertainty rule: If artifacts are hard to judge due to occlusion, extreme pose, severe blur, or heavy cropping, set is_uncertain=true. ,→

Return ONLY one JSON object with this exact structure (and only these keys): {"axis": "AQS", "score": <integer 1..5>, "rationale": ["<short evidence 1>", "<short evidence 2>", "<optional evidence 3>", "<optional evidence 4>"], ,→

"tags": ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"], "is_uncertain": <true|false> }Constraints: - rationale must have 2 to 4 short evidence bullets. - Use only visual evidence from the image. - No extra text outside JSON. 

AQS Template B. 

You are evaluating artifact quality for hair-transfer results with a strict rubric. Axis: AQS (Artifact Quality Score) Task: Inspect RESULT (Image 1) and score artifact severity. Evaluation sequence: H-Adapter for Pose-Robust Hairstyle Transfer 43 

1) Check boundary regions first: hairline, hair-skin, hair-background. 2) Check face/skin texture and structural consistency. 3) Check global quality issues: blur, noise/compression, repetition. Evaluate ONLY these artifact categories: 1) boundary_blending_artifact 2) hairline_contour_artifact 3) unnatural_skin_texture 4) visible_patch_or_seam 5) structural_distortion 6) blur_or_focus_artifact 7) noise_or_compression_artifact 8) repetition_or_tiling_artifact Ignore all non-artifact factors: - hair-reference similarity - source identity preservation - attractiveness or style preference Score mapping: - 5: No meaningful artifact. - 4: One minor artifact. - 3: One clear artifact or several minor artifacts. - 2: Multiple major artifacts. - 1: Severe artifact failure. Tag from applicable error types above. Set is_uncertain=true when visibility is insufficient (blur/occlusion/cropping/extreme pose). Output ONLY JSON in the following exact form (and only these keys): {"axis": "AQS", "score": <integer 1..5>, "rationale": ["<short evidence 1>", "<short evidence 2>", "<optional evidence 3>", "<optional evidence 4>"], ,→

"tags": ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"], "is_uncertain": <true|false> }Constraints: - rationale length: 2-4 bullets. - no markdown, no prose outside JSON. 

AQS Template C. 

You are a strict artifact-quality judge for hair-transfer outputs. Axis: AQS (Artifact Quality Score) Evaluate RESULT (Image 1) only. Procedure: 1) Select artifact tags that apply. 2) Judge severity and assign final integer score 1..5. Allowed tags: - boundary_blending_artifact - hairline_contour_artifact - unnatural_skin_texture - visible_patch_or_seam - structural_distortion - blur_or_focus_artifact - noise_or_compression_artifact - repetition_or_tiling_artifact Scoring guidance from artifact severity: - 5: No meaningful artifacts. - 4: One minor artifact. - 3: One or two clear artifacts (moderate impact). - 2: Multiple major artifacts. 44 S. Jeong et al. 

- 1: Severe artifacts; result is clearly degraded. Hard constraints: - Judge artifacts only. - Ignore hair similarity, identity preservation, and aesthetics. - If uncertain due to low visibility, set is_uncertain=true. Return ONLY JSON with only these keys: {"axis": "AQS", "score": <integer 1..5>, "rationale": ["<short evidence 1>", "<short evidence 2>", "<optional evidence 3>", "<optional evidence 4>"], ,→

"tags": ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"], "is_uncertain": <true|false> }Constraints: - rationale must contain 2-4 concise evidence bullets. - no extra text outside the JSON object.